Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering in Bangalore - Approved by AICTE | DSCE
"Option entry for selecting the Institution elective will be open to all eligible students from January 5, 2026, 10:00 am to January 7, 2026, 4:00 pm. Please click here to view the steps for the selection process."
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
Aeronautical Engineering
Automobile Engineering
Biotechnology
Computer Science and Engineering
Computer Science and Business Systems
Computer Science & Engineering (Cyber Security)
Computer Science & Engineering (Data Science)
Computer Science & Engineering (Internet of Things and Cyber Security Including Block Chain Technology)
Computer Science and Design
Chemical Engineering
Civil Engineering
Electrical & Electronics Engineering
Electronics & Communication Engineering
Information Science and Engineering
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Medical Electronics Engineering
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
Robotics and Artificial Intelligence
Structural Engineering
Highway Technology
VLSI Design and Embedded Systems
Computer Science & Engineering
Master of Business Administration
Master of Computer Applications
DSCE Doctoral Fellowship 2025
Internal Research Review Board Meeting
List of M.Sc  Awarded
Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievement (ARIIA)
Dean’s Profile
First Year  Coordinator’s Desk
The admission process at DSCE is through CET and COMEDK. The minimum requirement is pass in PUC / CBSE / ISCE /10+2 or equivalent examination with Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects and a minimum of 45% marks ...
DSCE is an autonomous institute approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Govt. of India and affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University. It has widest choice of engineering branches ...
It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you all to the creative world of DSCE with an eco-friendly campus coupled with state-of-art infrastructure. Our well-equipped labs, research centres, workshops and libraries help ...
Examination Section
The evaluation process is carried out in two stages. Continuous Internal Evaluation [CIE] during the progress of the semester and Semester End Examination [SEE] conducted at the end of the semester ...
Campus Walkthrough
First year BE Student Induction Program
UG Student Hand Book 2025
UG Student Hand Book 2024
6th Sem Institutional Elective Syllabus
6th Sem Institutional Elective Subjects List
Institution Elective - Selection Process
Report on I Year Induction and Inauguration 2023-24
Report on I Year Induction and Inauguration 2022-23
Best practice 1
Best practice 2
Student Hand Book
Our Proud Alumni
Departments
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) offers a wide range of academic programs Undergraduate (UG), Postgraduate (PG), Research (Ph.D.) programs across various disciplines. These programs are designed to foster innovation, research, and professional excellence in engineering and allied fields.
Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning
Computer Science Engineering (Cyber Security)
Computer Science Engineering(Data Science)
Computer Science and Engineering (IoT & Cyber Security Including Blockchain Technology)
Information Science & Engineering
Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering
Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering
Mathematics Department
Physics Department
Chemistry Department
HIGHLIGHTS
NAAC A & NBA Accredited Programs
DSCE holds NAAC A accreditation and multiple NBA-accredited UG programs, reflecting excellence in quality education, infrastructure, and academic outcomes.
Autonomous Institution Affiliated to VTU
DSCE is an autonomous college under Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), offering a dynamic and industry-relevant curriculum aligned with global standards.
Strong Placement Record
Our dedicated placement cell has facilitated over 1,500+ placement offers annually, with top recruiters including TCS, Infosys, Accenture, Bosch, SAP, and more.
Active Research and Innovation Culture
DSCE promotes interdisciplinary research and innovation through its state-of-the-art research centers, funded projects from DST, AICTE, VGST, and industry collaborations.
Center of Excellence & Industry Tie-ups
Centers of Excellence in AI/ML, IoT, EV, Robotics, and VLSI are supported by collaborations with industries such as Texas Instruments, Intel, Bosch, and IBM.
International Collaborations
MoUs with reputed global universities in the USA, Germany, UK, and Japan enable student/faculty exchange, joint research, and global exposure.
Incubation & Start-up Support
DSCE’s Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Cell (IEDC) and DSCE Innovation Hub have nurtured 50+ startups and received national recognition from institutions like MSME and Atal Innovation Mission.
Holistic Student Development
A vibrant campus life with over 40+ technical and cultural clubs, student chapters like IEEE, SAE, ISTE, and regular technical fests fosters leadership and teamwork.
Green and Technology-Enabled Campus
DSCE offers a lush green, Wi-Fi-enabled campus with smart classrooms, advanced labs, e-learning platforms, and digital libraries.
Social Commitment and Sustainability
DSCE engages in impactful community outreach through NSS, Rotaract, and Unnat Bharat Abhiyan programs, and drives campus-wide green initiatives aligned with UN SDGs.
AICTE Feedback
Audit Report
Institution Research Promotion Guidelines 2022
NAAC Self Study Report
Grievance Redressal Portal - AICTE
Dayananda Sagar Entrepreneurship Research & Business Incubator Foundation
Dr. Chandramma Sagar Center for Women Empowerment and Skills Training (DC - WEST)
9741882324, 9741889394, 9741214448
+91-80-42161750 / 1
Admission Enquiry: +918792909121, +919972780251, +918792909113, +919972560251
Faculty Main Page
Faculty at DSCE fulfil multiple roles as educators, researchers and professionals having a broad range of backgrounds, scholarly interests and areas of expertise thereby bringing substantial achievement in professional practice and research into the classroom.
The multifaceted faculty continue to maintain and cultivate strong links with industry and academia alike. Besides high quality teaching, the faculty members are actively involved in basic and applied research through various R&D projects and consultancy.
Electronics And Instrumentation Engineering
DSCE - Vision, Mission and Highlights
Spread over 7 acres, DSCE encompasses a sprawling green campus equipped with state-of- the-art laboratories and cutting-edge infrastructure. The Central Library and Digital Library are pivotal resources, supporting the academic endeavours of students & faculty with modern facilities and a vast knowledge base. The campus is fully Wi-Fi enabled, ensuring high-speed internet access for all.
The college prides itself with dedicated faculty with high professional integrity. Faculty members are deeply committed to academics and student mentoring, ensuring personalized attention and fostering professional growth. The faculty’s research orientation is demonstrated by numerous sponsored R&D projects from esteemed organizations such as the Department of Science & Technology, Defence R&D organizations, Indian Space Research Organization, and AICTE.
DSCE has earned NAAC with ‘A’ Grade and 12 UG programs are accredited with NBA (National Board of Accreditation), demonstrating a strong commitment to quality and relevance in technical education.
DSCE's prominence is reflected in its recent rankings. According to the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ministry of Education Government of India, DSCE is place in 51- 100 rank band in Innovation Category, and DSCE is placed in the 201-300 rank band for top engineering colleges in India for the academic year 2024. Additionally, it secured an All India ranking of 103 and a Bangalore ranking of 9 in the India Today-MDRA 2024 Best College Surveys. The Week's Best College Ranking Survey 2024 placed DSCE at 130 nationally and 8th in Bangalore. Careers 360 awarded DSCE a AAAA+ rating in their annual ranking exercise, affirming its standing among India's top engineering institutions.
The Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre (IEDC) at DSCE is an initiative endorsed by the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India. IEDC aims to nurture and mentor innovative ideas from students, promoting entrepreneurship and leveraging the institute’s robust infrastructure and expertise. DSCE’s recognition as a premier host institution for this initiative underscores its commitment to fostering innovation and entrepreneurship.
The Centre for Innovation & Leadership (CIL) at DSCE bridges the gap between academic practises and corporate requirements by offering innovative soft skill and domain based training programs. Our goal is to develop individuals into exceptional leaders and enhance performance at both personal and organizational levels. By leveraging the expertise of distinguished Academicians, Coaches, Mentors, and Thinkers with extensive corporate experience, CIL creates high-quality training modules designed to help individuals unlock their potential and take control of their careers, driving them towards excellence.
At DSCE, we have established various Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in partnership with leading multinational corporations. These CoEs play a crucial role in connecting industry practices with academic learning. By incorporating the latest technologies and industry techniques into our curriculum, they offer students practical hands-on experience and valuable real-world insights. This collaboration ensures that students acquire up-to-date skills and knowledge that meet current industry standards, making them well prepared for their careers upon graduation. Through these initiatives, DSCE creates a vibrant learning environment that equip students to succeed globally.
DSCE proudly boasts a registered Alumni Association, reflecting the strong ties between our graduates and their alma mater. Our alumni are integral to our extended family, displaying the profound impact of the Institute/departments’ commitment to each student. Today, DSCE graduates excel in their careers, holding influential roles in renowned organizations, while staying closely connected with DSCE. The Dayananda Sagar Alumni Association is dedicated to nurturing these relationships, supporting lifelong learning, and providing valuable opportunities for networking, employment, and business within the DSCE community.
Placement Division at DSCE plays a crucial role in preparing students for the corporate world by offering training in CV writing, aptitude assessments, mock interviews, and group discussions. It also facilitates internship opportunities across various companies for interested undergraduate and postgraduate students. Committed to delivering top talent to corporates, the Placement Division collaborates closely with industry partners to ensure that students' development aligns with current industry requirements and standards.
To impart quality technical education with a focus on Research and Innovation emphasising on Development of Sustainable and Inclusive Technology for the benefit of society.
To provide an environment that enhances creativity and Innovation in pursuit of Excellence.
To nurture teamwork in order to transform individuals as responsible leaders and entrepreneurs.
To train the students to the changing technical scenario and make them to understand the importance of Sustainable and Inclusive technologies.
/about/about-us
DSCE - History and Founders
The Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering was established in 1979, was founded by
Late Sri R Dayananda Sagar
and is run by the
. It started with the basic courses of Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Electronics Engineering. The college offeres undergraduate, Post-graduates and doctoral programmes under Visvesvaraya Technological University.
MGVP Trust is an educational trust and was promoted by Late Shri. R. Dayananda Sagar in 1960. The Trust manages 28 educational institutions in the name of
“DAYANANDA SAGAR INSTITUTIONS” (DSI)
and multi – Specialty hospitals in the name of
SAGAR HOPSITALS
- Bangalore, India.
/about/history
The institution is led by Chairman
Dr. D Hemachandra Sagar
and Vice Chairman
Dr. D Premachandra Sagar,
governed by Board of Trustees and supported by various offices.
DSCE is committed and determined to achieve academic excellence and professional growth. I would like to take this opportunity to urge you all to focus on the all round development of the society. You should always have your education laced with morality and ethics. We provide the best environment for the teaching-learning process, research and innovative work. We are also striving hard to create a world-class educational institution. The knowledge that you will gain, the fine qualities that you will imbibe and the technical skills that you will learn to apply will be your major contribution to your parents, to the society and to the Nation.
Office of Chairman
Heritage Block, Shavige Malleshwara Hills,
Kumaraswamy Layout, Bangalore- 560 078,
Karnataka, India.
Reception: 080 – 26662226
Fax: 080 – 26660789
/about/leadership/chairman-message
Dr. D Premachandra Sagar
Sagarites work every day to advance the common good through all the available ways. We teach, We explore, We discover, We collaborate and We lead. It is indeed very heartening to witness that DSCE has carved a name for itself in the academic scenario of the region.
Education is the most powerful tool to bring the desirable changes in our personality and positive changes in our society. We innovate, inspire and empower through the training and teaching learning process. We achieve our potential and create circumstances that help our students and in turn help our society.
Office of Vice Chairman
/about/leadership/vice-chairman-message
Mr. Galiswamy
DSCE always remains in a constant process of building upon the common intellectual wealth to leverage success in academics, quality placements, research and development. It is noteworthy that we have established a strong bondage in industry and developed many corporate affiliates. Our vision brings hard work, open communication, team work and high level responsibility which allow our students to face challenges and also to fulfill individual responsibilities of the sophisticated society and the nation at large.
Office of Secretary
/about/leadership/secretary-message
Dr. B G Prasad
We are in the midst of interesting times with great opportunities. India is now the next frontier of the economic revolution. The aspirations, energy and acumen of the youth will be the key for India's economic transformation. A major step towards this direction would be to spot and hone the hidden talents of our youth and nurture them.
All great accomplishments are the outcomes of man’s dreams, determination & dedication to achieve a truly noble goal. Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) managed under MGVP Trust is the manifestation of efforts, dreams and aspirations of all the people involved in the mission towards excellence.
It gives me immense pleasure to welcome you all to the creative world of DSCE with an eco-friendly campus coupled with best infrastructure. Our well-equipped labs, research centers, workshops and libraries help in attaining highest standards in academics, research and professional excellence. We have excellent sports infrastructure & recreational facilities. We at DSCE focus on holistic development of our students and emphasize on imparting sound conceptual knowledge coupled with skill building and value added programs on soft skills. Our students are trained and mentored by highly talented, competent, dedicated faculty who endeavor to create an enjoyable learning experience. We also have a plethora of various recognition and scholarship schemes for deserving students.
We are in a highly competitive global market that demands niche skills and it is vital to ensure our curriculum is aligned with industry. DSCE being an autonomous Institute, we have worked with Industry experts and Researchers to develop value added curriculum to bridge industry-academia gaps. In collaboration with leading names in the Industry, we have several MOUs to our credit; have setup Centers of excellence to expose our students to latest breakthroughs in technology. Our well-coordinated industry visits, seminars, conferences augments this journey.
DSCE is accredited by NAAC with ‘A’ grade. Majority of our UG programs are accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA),New Delhi. DSCE is affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University(VTU), approved by AICTE and UGC.
We are proud to share that DSCE has been securing consistently NIRF ranking. This year DSCE is ranked with 126th Rank nationally. DSCE has the prestigious Gold Rating in National AICTE-CII Survey of Industry-Technical Institutes for the second consecutive year. We are equally proud of our placement cell with high success rates year over year. The undisputed strength of the institution is its alumni who are well placed in India and abroad.
We at DSCE believe in molding our students into good, socially responsible human beings by inculcating right values. Success is inevitable where there is foresight, firm determination, hard work and discipline. At the end of your journey with DSCE we are certain that you will turn out to be a confident technocrat, and reach great epochs.
/about/leadership/principal-message
Structure of Governing Body for Autonomous Institutes
Name of the member Members of the Management
Dr. D. Hemachandra Sagar
– Chairman
Dr. D. Premachandra Sagar
Ms. Tintisha H Sagar
Mr. Rohan P Sagar
Teachers of the College (Nominated by the Principal based on seniority)
Dr. Ramaraju H K
– Member | Vice-Principal, Prof. & HoD - Civil Engineering.
Dr. D. R. Ramesh Babu
– Member| Vice-Principal- HoD, Dept. of Computer Science Engg.
Educationalist or Industrialist (Nominated by Management)
Dr. A.C. Chandrashekar Raju
Principal of the College
Dr. B G Prasad -
Principal | Ex-Officio Member Secretary
Mrs. Prema David
Assistant Director Admissions
DAYANANDA SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Shavige Malleshwara Hills,
Kumaraswamy Layout,
Bangalore 560 111, Karnataka, India.
Mob: 9741882324 / 9741889394 / 9741214448 / 9916075170
Tel: +91-80-42161751, 42161750
Enquiry: +918792909121, +919972780251, +918792909113, +919972560251
Fax: +91-80-26660789
Other useful links
Course and Eligibility
/about/governing-body
Governing Council Meeting 2025
/about/governing-body/gbc-meeting-procedings
Committee for Purchasing Books & Stationeries
1
Dr. B.G. Prasad
2
Dr. Joseph C M , Prof. & HoD Physics
Member Coordinator
3
Ms. Sangeetha, Manager Conveno (Stationary Store)
4
Dr. Anantha Raju K.S., COE, Prof & HoD Chemistry
5
Student Representative: Sairam V
Budget Committee
Shri. Galiswamy, Secretary -DSI
Dr. B G Prasad, Principal
Dr. A.R. Aswatha, Dean Student Welfare
Mr. Sudhakar, Accounts Manager,   DSI
Purchase Committee
Dr. Premkumar
Dr. Dattatreya Mankame
Dr. Hareesha N.G.
Mr. Sudhakar, Accounts Manager- DSI
Academic Calendar Committee
Dr. Annapurna P Patil Prof. & HoD Information Science & Engineering
Dr. Muzameel Ahmed, Dy CoE
Member coordinator
Dr. Rudresh, Prof & Head Robotics
Dr. Haseebuddin M.R,  Dy CoE
Dr. Dinesh, Ass. Prof. ECE Dept
Ragging Prevention Committee
Dr. H.K. Ramaraju Prof. & HoD Civil Engg.
Dr. Mohammed Tajjudin, Prof. & Head CSE-Cyber Security
Dr. C. Vidya, Prof. Physics
Hostel  Wardens (Girls/Boys)
Dr. Chandakala, Asso. Prof. ISE
6
7
Dr. Radha Gupta, Prof. & HoD Maths
8
Dr. Raj Kumar, Prof. Physics
9
Dr. Shivendra, Civil Engg.
10
Mr. Nanjunda Swamy, Sports Director
11
Inspector, Kumaraswamy Layout Police Station
Invited Member
Anti-Drug Committee
Dr. Rajeshwari, Prof. & HoD Biotech
Dr. Hemakumar, Prof. BT
Dr. Deepak G,  Prof. CSE
Dr. Vidhya C, Prof. Physics
Mr. Nanjundaswamy, Sports Director
Dr. M.K. Venkatesh, Prof. Mech
Student Representative
BBMP Corporator – Kumaraswamy Layout
Alumni 2 Members - DSCE
12
Parents 2 Members - DSCE
Examination Cell
Dr. Ananthraju K S , COE, Prof & HoD Chemistry
Dr. Md. Haseebuddin, Prof. Mech
Dr. Shashiraj K Asst.Prof E&C
Prof. G.S. Mahesh, Prof. Mech
Dr. Rudresh, Asst. Prof AE
Cultural Committee
Dr. A.R. Ashwatha Dean Students Welfare
Dr. Padma Asst prof
Dr. Deepa H A , Prof. Chemical Engg.
Mr. Karthik M A, Prof.  Mech. Engg
Ms. Navya Holla, Asst. Prof. ECE
Mr. A M Prasad, Prof. CSE
Ms. Pooja Baliga, Cultural Executive - CPA, DSI
Sports Committee
Mr. Bharath BC Asst. Prof ISE
Dr. Devaraj Asso. Prof
Institution Social Responsibility Cell
Dr. Vindhya Malagi, Prof. & HoD AI & ML Dept.
Dr. Vidya C, Prof. Physics
Dr. Nagaraja Jogaiah, Prof. CSE
College News Letter / Magazine Committee
Dr. Neethu Urs
Dr. Padma, Medical Electronics
Prof. Vinothini C, CSE
Dr. Smitha Sasi, TCE Dept.
Dr. Rajeshwari, Prof. & HoD Biotechnology
Dr. Priya Hoskeri, Physics
Dr. Pavitra, ECE
Alumni Association Committee
Dr. R. Ravishankar, Prof. & HoD Chemical Engg.
Dr. Suma V, Vice Principal & HoD CSD
Dr. Sapna P J , Prof. ECE
Dr. Shivakumar, Prof. Civil Engg
Mr. Guruvenkatesh, V P TLP - DSI
Alumni Coordinator from Respective Dept.
Campus Maintenance  & Monitoring Committee
Dr. H.K. Ramaraju, Prof. & HoD Civil Engg
Dr. P. Dinesh, Prof. ECE
Facilities Manager
Mr. Mahadev Raju G K, Prof. Chemical Engg.
Dr. Devraj, Prof. TCE
College transport Committee
Facilities Manager-Transport
Dr. Naveen B.E Asso. Prof Auto
Dr. Kamesh, Prof. Mech. Engg.
Hostel Advisory Committee
Dr. A.R. Aswatha, Prof. & HoD Medical Electronics
Dr. Mahesh B.R. Prof. Automobile Engg
Mr. Venkat Bangare
Mr. Prakash N
Dr. Usha P, Prof. EEE
Dr. J. Satheesh Kumar Asso.Prof. EIE
Grievances and redressal cell & Women’s harassment Cell
Dr. Hemalatha K.G. Professor & Head, Dept of MBA
Dr. Samitha Khaiyum, Prof. & HoD MCA
Dr. Arunadevi, Prof. Mech Engg.
Dr. Amutha. S., Prof. CSE
College Internal Complaints Committee
Dr. PADMA C R
Chair Person
Dr. VIDYA C
Dr. S P MEHARUNNISA
Mr. SHIVA KUMAR T.M
Ms. SUNANDA
Mr. PRITHVI PRABHU
Mr. SHREYAS RAGHAVENDRA NAIK
Ms. RASHMI SHETTY
External Member
Dr. Shreevamshi Naveen
Institution Development Committee
Dr. B G Prasad, Principal DSCE
Dr. H K Ramaraju,  Vice Principal & HoD Civil
Dr. Suma, Vice Principal & HoD CSD
Mr. Guru Venkatesh,  VP - PSDC-DSI
AICTE Cell
Dr. Dinesha. P, Prof. ECE
Mr. Manish Bhat, Principal's Office
Coordinator from each Dept.
Committee for SC/ST/OBC
Nagaraja Jogaiah, Prof. CSE
Dr. Nagaraju
Dr. Vaidehi M, Prof ISE
Dr. Mohammed Tajuddin, Prof. CSE
Library Committee
Dr. Hemalatha K.G. Prof. & HoD MBA
Mr. David, Chief Librarian
Dr. Annapurna D, Prof & HoD IoT & Cyber Security
Dr. Krushna Samy V S
Mr. Made Gowda, Asst. Librarian
Ethics Committee for research
Dr. K S Anantha Raju, Prof. & HoD Chemistry - CoE
Dr. Ramesh Babu D.R. Prof & Head, CSE, Vice Principal
Dr. Sreeram, Prof & HoD ML Dept, Dean Research
Dr. Annapurna P. Patil, Prof & Head ISE, Dean Academics
Dr. Keshavamurthy , Prof & Head Mechanical
Research Advisory Committee
Dr. Sriram, Prof. & HoD Medical Electronics
Dr. H K Ramaraju, Prof. & HoD Civil
Dr.Ramesh Babu D.R, Prof. & HoD CSE
Dr. Suma V, Prof. & HoD CSD
Dr. Ananthraju, Prof. & HoD Chemistry, CoE  - DSCE
Dr. R. Keshavamurthy, Prof. & HoD Mech
Dr. C M Joseph, Prof. & HoD Physics
Dr. M. Premkumar, Prof. & HoD EEE
Professional  Society Chapters
Dr. Shobha K.R, Prof. & HoD ECE
Dr. Neetu Urs, Prof. Civil Engg.
All Heads of the Dept. (Ex-officio)
Training & Placement & Career Guidance Cell
Mr. M.N. Guruvenkatesh, VP T&P - DSI
Dr. Haseebuddin M.R., Prof. Mech Engg.
Dr. Rashmi., Prof. & Head, CSE-Data Science
Industry- institute –Interaction Cell Entrepreneurship development cell
Dr. Keshava Murthy, Prof & HoD Mech Engg
Dr. Hemalatha. K.G., Prof. and HoD MBA
Dr.Priya A Hoskeri
/about/statutory-committee/committee-members
Bangalore 560 078, Karnataka, India.
Ph: 9916075170
Human Resources
Mr. Gopal Krishna
Human Resources Department
#101, Heritage Block
Bangalore- 560 078, Karnataka, India.
Ph. No.080-42161720
Mr. Guruvenkatesh M N
Senior Vice President - Placements & Skill Development
Chief Academic Officer (CAO) - DSCE
#103, Heritage Block
Ph. No.080-42161497
#1, Office of Exam Superintendent
Heritage Block
Ph. No.080-42161724
/about/administrative-offices
INTERNAL QUALITY ASSURANCE CELL
About IQAC
Student Satisfaction Survey
NAAC Certificates and Downloads
Chairman IQAC, DSCE
Dr. B G Prasad,
The Chairman of the IQAC , DSCE is of the opinion that the diverse experience, knowledge and skills of these members would go a long way in accomplishing the aims and objectives of DSCE - IQAC.
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has been accredited by National Assessment & Accreditation Council [NAAC] under cycle II with CGPA of 3.20 on four point scale at ‘A’ grade valid up to for a period of five years till 27
June, 2027.
Dr. Shobha K R – Dean IQAC,
Professor & Head of the Department of Electronics and Communication , DSCE,
DSCE has been accredited by National Assessment & Accreditation Council [NAAC] with CGPA of 3.42 on four point scale at ‘A’ grade valid upto July 10, 2021. The NAAC Peer team in its final report had desired that DSCE should have an Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) for quality assurance and continuous improvement. The NAAC has also proposed that every accredited institution should establish an IQAC as a post accreditation quality sustenance measure. During October 2013, the NAAC have notified a revised guideline of IQAC and submission of Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR). As per the guidelines, the institutions need to submit yearly the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) to NAAC. A functional Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) and timely submission of Annual Quality Assurance Reports (AQARs) are the Minimum Institutional Requirements (MIR) to volunteer for second, third or subsequent cycle’s accreditation.
To develop a system for conscious, consistent and catalytic action to improve the academic and administrative performance of the institution.
To promote measures for institutional functioning towards quality enhancement through internalization of quality culture and institutionalization of best practices.
Chairperson: Head of the Institution
Dean IQAC HOD-ECE,DSCE
Dr. Shobha K R , Convener
Dr.H K Ramaraju
HOD - Civil, Vice Principal, Member
Dr. D . R Ramesh Babu
HOD - CSE, Vice Principal, Member
HOD - CSD, Vice Principal, Member
Dr. Annapurna P Patil
HOD - ISE, Dean-Academics, Member
Dr Sriraam N
HOD - ML, Dean - Research., Member
Dr. A R Aswatha
Dean - Student Affairs
Dr. K. S. Anantha Raju
HOD - Chemistry, COE, Member
Dr. Keshav Murthy
HOD, Mechanical Engg., Member
Dr. C. M.Joseph
HOD, Physics, Member
Dr Premkumar M
HOD, Electrical and Electronics Engg., Member
Dr D Annapurna
HOD, Computer Science & Engineering (Internet of Things and Cyber Security Including Block Chain Technology)., Member
One member from the management
Sri. Galiswamy, Secretary
FEW SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
Mr. Guru Venkatesh
Chief Academic Officer, Member
Mr.B S Sudhakar
Manager, Accounts, Member
Dr.Johnson C . David
Chief Librarian, Member
ONE NOMINEE EACH FROM LOCAL SOCIETY, STUDENTS AND ALUMNI
Dr. Sangappa, Director(ADM & PRO) KSIT K S Institute of Technology No.14, Raghuvanahalli, Kanakapura Road, Bengaluru - 560109
Mr.Raghava(CSE) - 1DS23CS171 - 2nd year, 4th sem, C section
Mr. Jayant P (Mech) - 1DS22ME042 - 3rd year, 5th Sem, B Section
Ms.Disha N G (ISE) - 1DS22IS044 - 5 th Sem A Section
Sandesh A R (ECE) - 1DS22EC190 - 5th sem C section
Ms. Mantasha Tarannum(MBA) - 1st Year - 1st Semester
Mr.Akash S Badiger (ECE) - 1st year M.Tech
Mr. Madhusudhan (CSE) - Senior System Software Engineer, NVIDIA Bagmane Goldstone, Chinappa Layout, Laxmi Sagar Layout, Mahadevapura, Bengaluru, Karnataka.
Mr. Amar Mali Patil (Mech) - Lead Business Analyst Cardinal Health 6R013, 6th Floor, Nitesh Timesquare, No. 8, M G Road, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560001
Mr. Avishkar (MBA) - KPMG RMZ Ecoworld, Campus 7, 1st and5th Floor, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560103
Mr. Pradeep Salla (ECE) - Siemens EDA (Siemens Digital Industries Software) BBMP Katha #373/104/106/8 SY #104 & 106/8, International Airport Road, Bangalore, Karnataka 560092
Mr. Farhaan Bukhsh(ISE) - Open source contributor and FOSS enthusiast
Mr. Sachin Shivakalimat (MBA) - DELL Survey no. 7/1, 7/2, 7/3, Embassy Golf Links Business Park, Off-Intermediate Ring Road, Domlur, Challaghatta Village, Varthur Hobli, Bengaluru- 560071, Karnataka, India
Mr. Adil, Shell, Bangalore Innovation Centre
ONE NOMINEE EACH FROM EMPLOYERS/INDUSTRIALISTS/ACADEMICIAN (EXTERNAL)
Sumit Kumar
Senior Engineering Manager - Analog Devices India Pvt. Ltd Salarpuria Nova, No. 1, Varthur Road, Nagavarpalya, Bengaluru - 560093
Industrialist:
Mr. T N PradeepKumar Naidu C T O (Chief Technical Officer) NIKIT Engineers Plot No.C88, Printech Park, Harohalli Industrial Area, Kanakapura Taluk, Ramanagra District, Indstrial Area, Hoodi, Bengaluru, Karnataka 562112
Academician (external)
Dr.S.J.Thiruvengadam, Director IQAC, Director (Accreditation and International Relations) Professor , Dept. of ECE Thiagarajar college of Engineering Madurai 625 015, Tamilnadu, India
Dr. Shambhavi B R, Chief Coordinator, IQAC Professor & Head, Dept. of CSE (Data Science) B.M.S. College of Engineering Post Box No. 1908, Bull Temple Road, Bangalore 560079
Coordinating Team
Dr. Trupti Tagarae
Assistant Professor ECE, Member (Main Coordinator)
Dr. Vinod Duradi
Associate Professor ETE, Member
Dr. Nagachandra K
Assistant Professor ECE, Member
Dr. Sundaramahalingam A
Assistant Professor AE, Member
Dr. Aruna M G
Associate Professor AIML, Member
Assistant Professor AU, Member
Dr. Akshatha Prasanna
Assistant Professor BT, Member
Dr. S M Desai
Associate Professor CHML, Member
Shahaji Patil
Assistant Professor CVL, Member
Dr. Annapoorna B R
Assistant Professor CSE, Member
Mrs. Sanjana Nagaraj
Assistant Professor CSBS, Member
Dr. Shobha N
Associate Professor CSD, Member
Prof. Bhagyashree Kulkarni
Assistant Professor CSDS, Member
Dr. PB Savitha
Associate Professor EEE, Member
Dr.V S Krushnasamy
Associate Professor EIE, Member
Dr. Vaidehi M
Associate Professor ISE, Member
Dr. V. R. Srinivasan
Assistant Professor ME, Member
Dr. Murigendrayya M Hiremath
Assistant Professor ML, Member
Dr T Uthayakumar
Associate Professor PHYSICS, Member
Assistant Professor MATHEMATICS, Member
Dr. Meena S
Assistant Professor CHEMISTRY, Member
Dr. Vibha M B
Assistant Professor MCA, Member
Dr. Vinod Krishna M U
Professor MBA, Member
Mr. Shashank S
Assistant Professor Dept of IoT, Cybersecurity Blockchain, Member
Minutes of Meeting - 2024
Minutes of Meeting - 2023
Minutes of Meeting - 2022
Minutes of Meeting - 2021
Minutes of Meeting - 2020
Minutes of Meeting - 2019
Minutes of Meeting - 2016
Strategies:
IQAC shall evolve mechanisms and procedures for:
Ensuring timely, efficient and progressive performance of academic, administrative and financial tasks.
The relevance and quality of academic and research programmes.
Equitable access to and affordability of academic programmes for various sections of society.
Optimization and integration of modern methods of teaching and learning.
The credibility of evaluation procedures.
Ensuring the adequacy, maintenance and functioning of the support structure and services.
Research sharing and networking with other institutions in India and abroad.
Functions:
Some of the functions expected / initiated from the IQAC are:
Development and application of quality benchmarks/parameters for various academic and administrative activities of the institution.
Facilitating the creation of a learner-centric environment conducive to quality education and faculty maturation to adopt the required knowledge and technology for participatory teaching and learning process.
Arrangement for feedback response from students, parents and other stakeholders on quality-related institutional processes.
Dissemination of information on various quality parameters of higher education.
Organization of inter and intra institutional workshops, seminars on quality related themes and promotion of quality circles.
Documentation of the various programmes /activities leading to quality improvement.
Acting as a nodal agency of the Institution for coordinating quality-related activities, including adoption and dissemination of best practices.
Development and maintenance of institutional database through MIS for the purpose of maintaining /enhancing the institutional quality.
Development of Quality Culture in the institution.
Preparation of the Annual Quality Assurance Report (AQAR) as per guidelines and parameters of NAAC, to be submitted to NAAC.
IQAC will facilitate / contribute:
Ensure heightened level of clarity and focus in institutional functioning towards quality enhancement.
Ensure internalization of the quality culture.
Ensure enhancement and coordination among various activities of the institution and institutionalize all good practices.
Provide a sound basis for decision-making to improve institutional functioning.
Act as a dynamic system for quality changes in HEIs.
Build an organized methodology of documentation and internal communication.
Composition:
IQAC may be constituted in every institution under the Chairmanship of the Head of the institution with heads of important academic and administrative units and a few teachers and a few distinguished educationists and representatives of local management and stakeholders.
The composition of the IQAC are as follows:
Chairperson: Head of the Institution.
A few senior administrative officers.
Three to eight teachers.
One member from the Management.
One/two nominees from local society, Students and Alumni.
One/two nominees from Employers /Industrialists/stakeholders.
One of the senior teachers as the coordinator/Director of the IQAC
Self Study Report
NAAC Certificates & Downloads
AQAR Report 2022-23
AQAR Report 2021-22
AQAR Report 2019-20
AQAR Report 2018-19
AQAR Report 2017-18
AQAR Report 2016-17
DSCE NAAC Certificate 2
DSCE NAAC Certificate
Objectives, Function & activities of IQAC
Establishment and Monitoring of the IQACs in Colleges
/about/iqac
/about/iqac/peo-pso-cos
/about/iqac/minutes-of-meeting
Audit Reports
1.
Audit Report - 2024-25
Click Here
2.
Audit Report - 2023-24
3.
Audit Report - 2022-23
4.
Audit Report - 2021-22
5.
Audit Report - 2020-21
6.
Audit Report - 2019-20
7.
Audit Report - 2018-19
8.
Audit Report - 2017-18
9.
Audit Report - 2016-17
10.
Audit Report - 2015-16
11.
Audit Report - 2014-15
12.
Audit Report - 2013-14
13.
Audit Report - 2012-13
14.
Audit Report - 2011-12
/audit-reports
Top Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning College in Bangalore | DSCE
Highlights
Lumina 2.0
The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering hosted Lumina 2.0 on November 9, 2024, under the theme "Radiate – Reflect – Resonate". The fest featured captivating dance, music, and theater performances, providing a platform for students and faculty to showcase their artistic talents. The event fostered creativity, unity, and collaboration, making it a memorable experience for all participants and attendees.
Complete Report
"Code Zero – The Technical Club of AIML   Code Zero, the official technical club of the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, serves as a platform for students to enhance their technical skills and foster innovation. The club organizes workshops, hackathons, and technical seminars, providing hands-on learning experiences and encouraging collaborative problem-solving.
IdeaHive 2.0
Organized by Code Zero, the technical club of the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, IdeaHive 2.0 provided a platform for young, creative minds to develop innovative solutions to real-world challenges. The ideathon encouraged participants to think beyond boundaries, fostering imaginative problem-solving and promoting innovation, regardless of the scale or complexity of the solution.
Anokhya 2.0
Anokhya 2.0 – A Celebration of Innovation and Talent Organized by the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning under the aegis of the DSCE Innovation Council and SCRS Students Chapter, Anokhya 2.0 was a dynamic two-day tech fest featuring eight engaging competitions: UI/UX Design, BGMI, Shark Tank, Tech Debate, Free Fire, Meme Splash, Treasure Hunt, and Photography.
Entrepreneurs Conclave
The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering hosted the Entrepreneurs Conclave, bringing together aspiring innovators and industry leaders. The event featured insightful discussions, interactive sessions, and networking opportunities, empowering students with entrepreneurial skills, industry insights, and strategies for startup success.
Sujan K – Best Student All-Rounder Award Recipient
Sujan K, an esteemed alumnus of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, was honored with the Best Student – All Rounder award for his outstanding academic achievements, leadership, and active participation in extracurricular activities. His remarkable accomplishments serve as an inspiration, reflecting the values of excellence, dedication, and holistic development.
Mentorship Program for Rural Polytechnic Students
The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering launched a dedicated mentorship program to support diploma students from rural polytechnic colleges, focusing on bridging the gap between academic learning and industry demands. Targeting Computer Science students, the program offers hands-on training, industry insights, and career mentorship to strengthen their technical foundation.
Research Grant – Adaptive Learning with AI
The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has been sanctioned a research grant of ₹14,04,000 as part of an MoU with Nuevera Infotech Pvt Ltd, an Edutech startup focused on product development for new-age learning. The grant supports the project titled "Adaptive Learning with AI: A Comprehensive Platform for Learning Engagement and Performance Optimization".
The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering organized a Skill Development Program on Edge AI for pre-final year students. The workshop introduced AI deployment on edge devices such as smartphones, IoT devices, and embedded systems. It focused on enabling real-time processing, reducing latency, and enhancing privacy by minimizing cloud dependency, equipping students with practical insights into edge computing technologies.
To provide progressive education and flourish the student’s ingenuity to be successful professionals impacting the society for a smarter
and ethical world.
To adopt an engaging teaching–learning process with emphasis on problem-solving, programming, and intelligent systems development skills.
To promote additional skill development through enhanced and experiential learning.
To collaborate with industries and professional bodies to make students industry-ready.
To encourage innovation through multi-disciplinary research and development activities.
To nurture human values and ethical principles in students, empowering them to contribute meaningfully to society as responsible professionals.
Program Specific Outcomes(PSO)
PSO 1
: Graduates will demonstrate strong programming and problem-solving abilities for the design, development, and maintenance of software solutions.
PSO 2
: Graduates will be able to identify, formulate, analyze, and solve real-world problems by applying principles of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning.
PSO 3
: Graduates will be capable of using computational platforms and execution environments to deploy and manage computing solutions effectively.
Program Education Objectives(PEOs)
PEO 1
: Graduates will effectively apply problem-solving, communication, and collaborative skills to design and deliver innovative engineering solutions in professional practice.
PEO 2
: Graduates will contribute Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning expertise grounded in Computer Science and Mathematics as effective members and leaders of multidisciplinary engineering teams.
PEO 3
: Graduates will demonstrate a strong research orientation through engagement in interdisciplinary, cross-domain, and innovation-driven research.
PEO 4
: Graduates will demonstrate social and ethical responsibility by applying engineering knowledge and skills to address societal challenges and contribute to a sustainable and intelligent world.
From the HOD's Desk:
At DSCE, we present a stimulating 4-year B.E program in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI & ML) designed for ambitious students eager to embark on a fulfilling career in these cutting-edge fields.
AI is a revolutionary technology shaping the future across various industries and human activities. It has significantly altered everyday life, driving a soaring need for professionals skilled in AI & ML. Our curriculum aims to cultivate adept engineers with a robust foundation in computer science, enhanced by comprehensive knowledge and hands-on experience in AI & ML, thus unlocking numerous career prospects. Participants will learn to develop pioneering applications utilizing technologies like Neural Networks, Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, ML in Production and Generative AI. Our all-encompassing, industry-aligned curriculum, coupled with project-based learning and guidance from seasoned faculty, ensures students are industry-ready. Additionally, we place equal emphasis on research, entrepreneurship, and placements, fostering a holistic approach to career development.
Dr. Vindhya P Malagi
Professor & Head of the Department
Academic Advisory Committee
1. Satyanath Bhat
Assistant Professor
Indian Institute Of Technology, Goa
2. Dr.Pavan Kumar C
Dept of CSE
Indian Institute Of Information Technology Dharwad
Industry Advisory Committee
1. Nitest Gupta
Senior Principal Scientist @ National Aerospace Laboratries, Bangalore
2. Suresh Ambekar
Chief Architect at IBM
3. Mandar
Engineering Leader
Amazon, USA
/academics/ug/aiml
Top Aeronautical Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
Program Specific Outcomes
The graduates of the Program will be able to:
PSO 1:
Design, analyse and develop safe innovative aeronautical and allied engineering
systems to meet industry-specific challenges using interdisciplinary skills.
PSO 2:
Exhibit and possess skills for higher studies and build career paths towards
entrepreneurship, industries, and R&D labs.
Program Education Objectives
The graduates of the program will be
PEO 1:
Successful professionals as aeronautical engineers in private and government organization.
PEO 2:
Pursuing higher education and would work on continuous professional improvement in the aeronautical domain that meets the need of society.
PEO 3:
Implementing the engineering knowledge in the emerging interdisciplinary domain.
The department of aeronautical engineering strives to produce graduates with sustainable engineering education, technical competency, social responsibility, innovative and research skills to contribute for the national and global development.
To provide quality teaching, learning and research environment for a successful career in aeronautical engineering and interdisciplinary field.
To engage the students in research and development which helps them to pursue higher education.
To mould the students with ethical, social and intellectual qualities to become successful aeronautical engineers.
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering was established in 2009 and accredited by National Board of Accreditation (NBA), New Delhi. The department offers under-graduate course in Aeronautical Engineering with an intake of 60 students. It is a four-year eight semester course of sixteen weeks duration in each semester. The main aim is to impart quality education in Aeronautical Engineering and to create engineers of excellence for the best institutions in Aeronautical domain. The Department has modern infrastructure with hi-tech laboratories. It actively tries to fill the gap between academic and industrial needs by organizing guest lectures, seminars and workshops on current technology by inviting eminent persons from premier aeronautical industries and institutes. The specializations include areas like structural design, navigational guidance and control systems, instrumentation and communication or it can be in a particular product such as military aircraft, passenger planes, helicopters, satellites, rockets, etc. Engineers may work in areas like research, design, development and maintenance as well as in the managerial and teaching positions in academic institutes.
Dr. P. S. Shivakumar Gouda
Professor & Head
Department of Aeronautical Engineering
: +91-80-42096324
COURSES OFFERED
UG Program
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Aeronautical Engineering (AE).
Dr.Ramaseshan Satagopan
Dr.Hareesha N G
Dr.Prathik Jain S
Dr.Srikanth Salyan
Dr.Sundaramahalingam A
Dr. Sankaralingam L
Dr.Suman Dey
Dr. Jasti Anurag
Ms. Afreen Nizami
Mr.Indranil Roy
AE DEPARTMENT
Invited Talk
Department of Aeronautical Engineering regularly conducts Guest Lectures and webinars by inviting Industry experts and academicians from various prestigious institutions.
Infrastructure
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering has modern infrastructure with hi-tech laboratories. Department is well equipped with: Aerodynamic Laboratory, Aircraft Propulsion Laboratory, Aircraft Structures Laboratory, Energy Conversion Laboratory, Fluid Mechanics Laboratory, Numerical Flow And Structural Analysis Laboratory, Aircraft Simulation Laboratory
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering has Research Centre affiliated to VTU, Belagavi. R&D facilities include Subsonic wind tunnel with six component pressure balance with modern sensors, Computerized miniature gas turbine with R&D interface, subscription to many reputed journals and many more.
Placement Statistics
Dayananda Sagar Institutions has an elite placement division to facilitate the placements for all students. The Placement division works with Corporates to build the overall Development of Students as per industry requirements. All the eligible students of Department of Aeronautical Engineering get the placements in reputed organizations with good salary package.
Department Highlights
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering regularly conducts workshops and conferences for the benefit of students and faculty members.
Department Publications
Our faculty actively pursue work in professional practice, research and service projects, and participation in publications, and presentations of papers at professional meetings.
/academics/ug/aeronautical
Top Automobile Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
NBA Automobile 2023 to 2026
Graduates will be able
: To apply the knowledge of basic sciences and fundamentals of engineering to conceptualise, design, model and manufacture automotive systems / processes.
: To use the advanced engineering tools in design engine chassis and drive train system.
: To lead professionally in an industrial environment by applying managerial skills toimprove performance and safety through proper maintenance of automobiles.
Graduates after 3 to 4 years shall:
: Be able to apply the knowledge of basic sciences, engineering fundamentals to solve problems in challenging interdisciplinary automotive field.
:Acquire the necessary managerial skills comprising of collaboration and innovations leading to participatory efforts to address commercial needs.
: Exhibit the knowledge to function in professional way with ethical concerns to meet the requirements of the society.
: Possess motivated approach in upgrading knowledge and skills through continual education and research to promote Entrepreneurship and Employability.
Imparting Sustainable, Value Based Automobile Engineering Education through Research and Innovation beneficial to the Society.
M1: To impart Scientific Knowledge and Engineering Skills in the area of Automobile Engineering.
M2: To encourage Interdisciplinary Learning for efficient design of Automotive components by conducting skill development programs.
M3: To promote Social and Environmental responsibility by Research and Innovation through collaborations.
M4: To inculcate a passion amongst students by providing hands on training in servicing Automotives using Diagnostic Tools and Equipment enhancing Entrepreneurship and Employability.
Department walk through video
I am thrilled to extend a heartfelt welcome to all automotive enthusiasts embarking on our esteemed Automobile Engineering Program. At Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, our program stands as a testament to our dedication to innovation, excellence, and the cultivation of future leaders in automotive technology.
We believe in nurturing an educational environment that goes beyond imparting knowledge, fostering creativity, and honing problem-solving skills. Our meticulously crafted curriculum embodies the latest advancements and industry-centric practices within the ever-evolving landscape of automobile engineering.
Dr. Nandakumar M B
Professor & Head of the Department.
: 080-41155890
NEWS & EVENTS
Engineering Conclave 2024
Engineering conclave-2024 was held on 13-07-2024 to review the syllabus of 4th year 2021 curriculum and 3rd year, 2022curriculum. The curriculum was presented to the industry expert Dr. Anand M Shivapuji, Senior Research scientist, Center for Sustainable technologies & Founder Director, Carbsorb Solutions Private Limited,Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.
Meeting with Top Executives of LKQ
LKQ is a fortune 300 company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Keystone Automotive Operations Inc., an LKQ company. LKQ is a global leading provider of alternative and specialty parts to repair and accessorize automobiles and other vehicles.
EcoDrive: Accelerating Sustainable Electric Mobility
Our students won 1st Prize with cash prize of Rs 20,000/- and 3rd prize with cash prize of Rs 5000/- in “One-day Workshop on “EcoDrive: Accelerating Sustainable Electric Mobility” Organized by INAE Bangalore Chapter and Dayananda Sagar University (DSU) held on 24 May 2024.
Engineering Conclave 2023
Engineering conclave-2023 was held on 24-06-23 in Automobile Engineering Department. The curriculum was presented to the industry expert Mr. Suhas B R, Technical lead, Vehicle crash Safety, Tata Technologies for his inputs.
2nd position in SRISHTI-2022 Auto Expo project
Vishnu Athreya ,Prathamesh Jadhav, Vishwanath Aradhya, Shreyas Kumar- has secured 2nd position in SRISHTI-2022 Auto Expo project exhibition competition 2022 held at BMS college of Engg, Bangalore from 25-27th July 2022 for 4-speed epicyclic powertrain with electromagnetic clutch for electric-vehicle
Third position in SRISHTI-2022 Auto Expo project
Nithin R Vasisht, Sridhar Revankar, -Rock-E design of Electric vehicle power train has secured Third position in SRISHTI-2022 Auto Expo project exhibition competition 2022 held at BMS college of Engg, Bangalore from 25-27th July 2022
Rock-E Design of Electric Vehicle Power
Rock-E design of Electric vehicle power train project also was selected as Best project from DSCE from VTU.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Automobile Engineering.
Doctoral Program
Ph.D/ M.Sc (Engg.) by Research
E-NEWS LETTER
FACULTY DETAILS
Dr. Naveena B E
Dr. Mahesh B R
Dr.S.Jenoris Muthiya
Dr. Divya G S
Dr. Santhosk K
Dr. Puneet N P
Mrs. Kavya JT
AUTOMOBILE DEPARTMENT
Expert lecture on “Application of Vehicle Dynamics in ADAS/Autonomous Driving Systems for Automotive Industry” by Mr Sarnab Debnath, Sr. ADAS System Development Engineer, Mercedes Benz Research and Development India On 15th September, 2023
Facilities
AutoMoblie Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms with all equipped with projectors. Equipped with
( 15KVA x 2 Systems, backup of 2 hrs for 250 Systems). Department has library of 120 sq. feet containing around
150
Team DSCE-Motorsports participated in SUPRA SAE-INDIA 2023 at Buddh International Circuit, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh from 10.07.23 to 13.07. 23. Team DSCE Motorsports secured overall 13th rank in India out of 80 teams from various colleges
“4-speed epicyclic powertrain with electromagnetic clutch for electric-vehicle” patent published by Vishnu Athreya ,Prathamesh Jadhav, Vishwanath Aradhya, Shreyas Kumar on 17.06.2022
Department News
PLACEMENT STATISTICS:
Dayananda Sagar Institutions has an elite placement division to facilitate the placements for all students...
The Placement division works with Corporates to build the overall Development of Students as per industry requirements...
/academics/ug/automobile
Top Biotechnology College in Bangalore | DSCE
Graduates will be able to
: Apply knowledge of basic science and engineering principles to biological systems.
: Analyze biomolecules using advanced molecular techniques and computational tools to address major challenges in Life Science.
: Develop eco-friendly solutions to address diverse environmental & Societal problems.
PEO 1: Skill
: Enable our graduates to identify, analyse and solve industrial and environmental problems by implementing acquired skills.
PEO 2: Career
: Encourage our graduates to apply their engineering knowledge as an individual or in a team to excel in higher studies, research, teaching and industry.
PEO 3: Lifelong learning
: Instil in our graduates a desire to engage in lifelong learning that will foster their career with an impact on society.
PEO 4: Ethics
: Inculcate in our graduates to develop high level of professionalism and ethical attitude with awareness of current issues in relation to safety, health and environment.
To impart quality education, training and research in multidisciplinary domains of biotechnology for the benefit of society and environment.
To provide globally acceptable technical education in the field of biotechnology by encouraging innovative thinking with practical insights.
To promote team work and nurture students to serve society with ethical and environmental responsibilities.
To foster students for higher studies, R&D activities and professional career in emerging trends of biotechnology .
Biotechnology is a specialized scientific area focused towards providing better quality of life. Engineering applications of Biotechnology caters to industries such as agriculture, food and beverages, pharmaceuticals, environment, energy and health sector to name a few. In nutshell, Biotechnology makes use of natural biological process for the benefit of mankind.
Dr. N. Rajeswari
Professor and Head
Department of Biotechnology.
: +91-80-42161748
Model Organisms for Toxicology Studies: Handling of Drosophila Melanogaster & Danio Rerio
4 days Skill Development Program on “Model Organisms for Toxicology Studies: Handling of Drosophila melanogaster & Danio rerio on 1st to 4th September, 2025
Clinical Data Management
The workshop on Clinical Data Management (CDM) provided students with an overview of CDM, its importance in clinical research, and career opportunities in the field. Sessions covered data collection methods, CRF design, CDM tools, and regulatory guidelines.
Hands on GC-MS Analysis: Exploring Analytical Techniques and Instrumentation
To provide hands-on training on GC-MS instrumentation, including sample preparation, injection, analysis, and data interpretation.
To bridge the gap between theoretical concepts taught in the subject Bioanalytical Instrumentation- 22BT674 and real-world instrument handling.
Fundamentals of Bioengineering - From a Biomaterial Perspective
The course focuses on biomaterials and their interactions with biological systems. The course covers material science fundamentals, different types of biomaterials (metals, ceramics, polymers), and their applications in drug delivery and tissue engineering. It also explores biological responses to biomaterials, including protein adsorption, immune reactions, and biocompatibility.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Biotechnology (4 Years)
Research Program
M.Sc (Engg.) by research program, Ph.D. Program
Dr. G. A. Ravishankar
Dr. Hema Kumar C
Dr. Shashank A Tidke
Dr. Prashantha Karunakar
Dr. Pradeep H N
Dr. Priya S
Dr. Sharad S Achar
Mrs. K. Supreetha
Mrs. Bhanu Revathi
Ms. Krithika S
Biotechnology DEPARTMENT
Dr. Vijay Danapur, CEO- VrikshaVijnan, Bengaluru gave a lecture on Utilization of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants in Industries .
Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms with all equipped with projectors. Department has well equipped laboratories with UPS Support.
Faculty Members of Biotechnology have Registered for
and Biotechnology Department has successfully completed 16 projects.
Workshop on Industrial lab safety and talk on Industrial Biosafetyby Mr. Thillai Chidambaram, Senior Scientist at Monsanto Pvt. Ltd
Dr. Sinosh Skariyachan, Associate Professor, Department of Biotechnology, DSCE was invited as resource person for DBT-HRD sponsored training programme on “Synthetic and molecular approaches for crop improvement” organized by Department of Biotechnology.
One of the main objectives and best practices of our department is to foster faculty members, research scholars and students to publish their research findings in reputed national and international journals with high citation index and impact factors such as Elsevier, Springer, Wiley-Blackwell, etc .
Innovation In Teaching and Learning
Cell Lines
A primary culture starts with biopsies from solid tissues or organs- embryos/ tumor cells --high proliferation capacity. These firmly attached cells have to be disaggregated to single cells-- mechanical dissociation and enzymatic detachment.
Animal cell culture techniques
19th Century Sydney Ringer developed salt solutions containing the chlorides of Na, K, Ca and Mg suitable for maintaining the beating of an isolated animal heart outside of the body. 1885: Roux maintained embryonic chick cells in saline
Moocs resources
Preparation of Media
Culture medium is available in three forms from commercial suppliers: Powdered form: it needs to be prepared and sterilized by the investigator. Concentrated form: to be diluted by the investigator. Working solution: to be used directly without further manipulation.
CHARACTERIZATION OF CELL LINE
Observation of morphology is the simplest and most direct technique to characterize cell lines. Study of the size, shape, and structure of cell. Most cells in culture can be divided in to five basic categories based on their morphology.
Solid waste management
Composting is the biological decomposition of the organic compounds of wastes, under controlled aerobic conditions.
Wastewater Characteristics
The degree of treatment depends on: Influent characteristics Effluent characteristics Impurities come from: Domestic activities Industrial activities Commercial activities
GENE TO PROTEIN
The central dogma of molecular biology deals with the detailed residue-by-residue transfer of sequential information. It states that such information cannot be transferred back from protein to either protein or nucleic acid
DNA polymerases
In 1956, Arthur Kornberg and colleagues discovered DNA polymerase I (Pol I), in Escherichia coli. They described the DNA replication process by which DNA polymerase copies the base sequence of a template DNA strand.
DNA Replication
A gene is the sequence of nucleotides within a portion of DNA that codes for a peptide or a functional RNA Sum of all genes = genome
Chromosomal inheritance and gene location
Chromosomes contain the units of heredity (genes) Pair chromosomes segregate during meiosis, each sex cell has half of the number of chromosomes found in a somatic cell. (Mendel’s law of segregation)
Genetic code
Genetic Code The letters A, G, T and C correspond to the nucleotides found in DNA. They are organized into codons. The collection of codons is called Geneticcode.
POST TRANSCRIPTIONAL MODIFICATION
In eukaryotes, transcription and translation occur in separate compartments. In bacteria, mRNA is polycistronic; in eukaryotes, mRNA is usually monocistronic
Gene expression in Prokaryotic (Bacterial)
Regulator genes encode products that regulate the expression of other genes. In positive control mechanisms, the product of the regulator gene is required to turn on the expression of structural genes.
Post-transcriptional modifications OF RNA accomplish three things: Modifications help the RNA molecule to be recognized by molecules that mediate RNA translation into proteins.
Replication models in prokaryotic
DnaA contains two conserved regions: the first is located in the central part of the protein and corresponds to the ATP-binding domain, The second is located in the C-terminal half and is involved in DNA-binding
Transcription inhibitors
Many anti-cancer drugs inhibit transcription and most transcription inhibitors have useful pharmacological properties. Many experiments require inhibition of transcription. RNAP II is the most sensitive polymerase.
DNA TRANSCRIPTION
Transcription- The synthesis of mRNA from a DNA template Occurs in the 5’ ->3’ direction Involves RNA polymerase mRNA, tRNA and rRNA must all be transcribed for protein synthesis to take place
1. Quiz Bionformatics - BT52
2. AAT Quiz1 Structural_Biology
3. AAT Quiz2 Structural_Biology
/academics/ug/biotechnology
Top Computer Science and Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
"CSE Brochure"
"Mastering Mindful Exam Preparation"
"The Department of CSE, DSCE congratulates Ms. Saanvika Bajaj for being hired by Microsoft as a software engineer with the highest CTC of 51 Lacs annually."
"CSE students Mr. Rithik Raj Pandey (1DS20CS168) and Mr. Sarthak Kumar Khandelwal (1DS20CS188) have won1st prize, a cash prize of Rs. 20000, in IDEATHON 4.0 conducted by NMIT, Bangalore."
" CSE student Ms. Saanvika Bajaj bagged internship from Microsoft India (R&D) Pvt. Ltd. with a monthly stipend of INR 125000"
" Our Proud Alumni, Major Smitha Laxman becomes the first woman from Karnataka to climb Mount Everest"
"Career Tips for CSE Domain"
" Student bags Rank 149 in Gate 2022"
" 2nd Year CSE students bag prize of 1.5L and PPO from Mercedez Benz in "Hack Star" Hackathon"
" CSE, DSCE bags 4 GitHub Internships 2022"
" CSE 6th sem student Shruthii R G bags the prestigious "Summer of Bitcoins" global internship"
" CSE Internship list 2020-2021"
"Hariom Chaturvedi and Jeffry Paul are selected for the prestigious Google Summer of Code 2021"
CSE Project Open Day
Do like our facebook page
: Graduates will be proficient with analytical and logical skills for the design, development, testing and maintenance of software.
: Graduates will be able to apply engineering knowledge to solve complex problems in the field of embedded computer systems.
: Graduates will be skilled in facilitating quality system analysis and design for the development of highly efficient computer networks.
: Graduates will possess strong foundation in Basic and Engineering Sciences, enabling them to analyze, design and solve real life problems with scientific and engineering expertise.
: Graduates will have exposure to emerging cutting edge technologies and adequate training with opportunity to work on multidisciplinary projects.
: Graduates will emerge as professionals with ethical attitude, effective communication skills, teamwork capability, and relate engineering issues to broader social context.
: Graduates will cultivate lifelong learning skills and leadership qualities required to lead a successful professional career.
To provide a vibrant learning environment in Computer Science and Engineering with focus on industry needs and research, for the students to be successful global professionals contributing to the society.
To adopt a
contemporary teaching learning process
with emphasis on hands on and collaborative learning.
To facilitate
skill development
through additional training and encourage
student forums
for enhanced learning.
collaborate with industry partners and professional societies
and make the students industry ready.
To encourage innovation through
multidisciplinary research and development activities
To inculcate human values and ethics in students and groom them to be responsible citizens.
The department Vision - Mission statements are formulated in accordance with the goals and objectives of the department keeping Institutional goals and objectives under consideration.
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering is positioned to create the technological leaders of tomorrow. Our goal is to ensure that our engineering graduates are well prepared to play the roles of problem solvers, project leaders, entrepreneurs, and above all ethical citizens of a global society. Our objective is to empower our students with latest technical knowledge and skills to meet global challenges. We provide them with the best teaching faculty, state-of-the-art technologies, excellent research and development environment and internships. Our aim is to provide professional grooming and guidance so that our students mould into thorough professionals and inspiring individuals when they enter into the real-time environment.
Dr. Ramesh Babu D. R.
Vice-Principal,
: +91-80-42161726
MoU with Wits University, South Africa
The Department of CSE, DSCE is delighted to announce the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Wits University, South Africa.
MoU with MILA University, Malaysia
The Department of Computer Science & Engineering, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) is pleased to announce the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MILA University, Malaysia.
Enhancing the Accuracy of Breast Cancer DiagnosisUsing Machine Learning Technique
Prof.Anupama Y K was awarded Ph.D from VTU on 18th, July 2024 with the thesis titled "Enhancing the Accuracy of Breast Cancer DiagnosisUsing Machine Learning Technique” under the able guidance of Dr. Amutha S and Dr. Ramesh Babu D R.
Eventure Pitch Competition
Amit Kumar Singh, a student from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, won first place in the "Eventure Pitch" competition. This event was organized by the BMSCE IEEE Computer Society in collaboration with BMSCE IEEE, the Power and Energy Society (PES), and the Sensors Council as part of PES Day 2024. Amit’s outstanding performance and innovative ideas have brought honor and laurels to our institution. His achievement is a testament to his hard work and dedication, as well as the quality of education and support provided by our faculty.
Develop Comprehensive Profiles
We are organizing an event exclusively for DSCE CSE faculty to develop comprehensive profiles on Tuesday, May 28th, 2024 for both faculty and students. This initiative is key to the success of our students and aligns with the aspirations of our management.
Hybrid International Hackathon
Team Streamline consist of Amit Kumar Singh from CSE, Sandhya M from CSE, N Venkat Swaroop from CSD and Shravya H Jain from ISE secured First place in 36 Hours Hybrid International Hackathon conducted by Bharati Vidyapeeths College of Engineering – New Delhi across 700+ teams in the month of April,2024.
A Hybrid Machine Learning Approach for Brain Tumour Detection and Classification
One of our faculty members, Prof S. Keerthi completed PhD final defense under Anna university Chennai in the presence of an Indian examiner, Prof Dr. Nickolas from NIT - Trichy (Dean of computing) and before the Subject expert, Prof Dr. Sangeetha from Coimbatore Institute of Technology“ with the Thesis entitled "A HYBRID MACHINE LEARNING APPROACH FOR BRAIN TUMOUR DETECTION AND CLASSIFICATION” on 16th of April, 2024.
Name : Kunal Kumar Gupta (2012-2016)
Technical Program Manager Google
Kirkland, WA,
Graduate Student : CMU
My time at CSE DSCE was not just about academics, it included learning life skills, making long lasting friendships and setting a foundation for the future. When one is enjoying what they are doing, things seem to be fun and that's how I went about things during my engineering days."
Name : Darshan Kodipalli (2012-2016)
Software Development Engineer at Amazon
Graduate Student,
Illinois Tech
"It has been a great privilege for me to be able to spend the most important phase of life and career growth path at the Dept. of Computer Science, DSCE. With unbelievable management and faculty, there isn’t one that you want to achieve is left unticked. In my 4 years at DSCE, I was lucky enough to execute all my ideas in the different fields of Computer Science. May it be robotics, web application development, networking, personal development, publications,… the encouragement I got was inexplicable and next to none to a degree that I was confident enough to feel I have a strong backbone that’d support me and my areas of interest. I was blessed enough to have highly reputed Professors of such kind who always went out of their ways to help us achieve all that we wanted. Whatever position I’m in right now, wouldn’t even be possible had the foundation not been the Department of Computer Science, DSCE."
Name : Bharathi Gummanur (2016-2020)
Cloud Solutions Engineer at Intel Corporation, India
Graduate Student UT Austin, USA
The most impactful experience in a person's life is undoubtedly college. From paving a path to embark on our professional careers to solidifying the goals we would strive to achieve in the long term, studying CSE at DSCE has played a huge part in helping me to get where I am today. With the guidance of many outstanding professors, opportunities to work on projects at companies like Nokia and various scintillating workshops provided, I was equipped with the confidence and the skills required to secure a job offer from Intel.  Because of the myriad of subjects offered and taught in the CSE branch of DSCE, I could identify the areas I was most intrigued by and proceeded to apply and get into the Master's in Computer Science programme at the University of Texas, Austin, which I am pursuing currently.  All in all, aside from providing me with a wonderful college experience, DSCE has most definitely instilled in me the skills required to excel in my professional career, which I am truly grateful for.
Name : Saikarthik Bavanasi (2017-2021)
Software Engineer CISCO, Bangalore
Being a student at the Computer Science department of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has been truly delightful for me. It opened the door for a huge number of opportunities. With the right support and guidance I received my Associate Cloud Engineer certification from Google as a part of Co-academic activities. The department provides holistic opportunities and makes us industry ready.
Name : Ashruthi Singh (2016-2020)
Software Developer at IBM
I am currently working at Ibm Software Labs Bangalore. I am proud to say that I was a part of the Computer Science and Engineering department of DSCE. It has been an amazing journey from DSCE to IBM. DSCE has helped me discover my interests and work accordingly progressively towards achieving my goal. Faculty members are the “Catalyst” of this process. Without faculty members like them, it's just an aim without a path. I was privileged enough that I could grow in every direction I wanted to explore and got all the help I needed to do so.  Forever grateful  Proud DSCEian
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE).
PG Program
M.Tech Programme in COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.
Ph.D in Computer Science and Engineering.
CSE HIGHLIGHTS
CSE Professional Societies & Student Chapters
AWARDS & ACCOLADES
Faculty and Students of Department of CSE, DSCE have regularly won awards and recognitions at various levels in both co-curricular and extra-curricular events.
View More...
Centers of Excellence
Center for Ophthalmic Instrumentation and Imaging (COII)
Center for Advanced Healthcare
CISCO Center of Excellence
Research @ CSE DSCE
14 Doctorates and 25 Research Scholars in the department.
Interdisciplinary Research
Project Grants received from various funding agencies Rs.1,29,05,500
Research Publications in peer reviewed Journals and Conferences
Point Blank Community
Point Blank Community (Point Blank is a community aimed to kick-start a coding culture in our department).
Read More...
PLACEMENTS
The major objective of the department of CSE is to make the students industry ready. CSE, DSCE has rigorous and elaborate action plan to facilitate the student through this process and this is proven by its excellent placement records.
CSE DEPARTMENT
Department of computer science and engineering organizes every semester technical talks through events like:
Guest Lecture Series
Club talks/Fest talks
Expert talks
Seminar/Symposium
Computer science and Engineering department is equipped with laboratories having advanced research infrastructure with interdisciplinary and industry based labs to emphasis on holistic learning of students. The department facilitates:
Class rooms and tutorial rooms equipped with projectors.
Laboratories equipped with best-in-class hardware and open-source/licenced software
Department library with 1000+ books.
Access for many international journals and e-books
Research and Development (R&D) flourishes where young minds and experienced faculty work synergistically. Research is a pedagogical tool that helps channelize the energy and enthusiasm of students into conceptual-based learning, thereby igniting their minds to explore with curiosity of the world around them.
11 Doctorates and 14 Faculty registered for Doctoral Program
Total Project Grants Received - Rs.129.055 Lakhs
Publications in peer reviewed Journals and Conferences
As a part of the University Collaboration, Nokia Bangalore, conducted a training session on “Campus to Corporate” for the students of 6th semester, CSE, DSCE. The sessions were handled by Ms. Indumathi Sandirane of Nokia, Bangalore.
DSCE ACM Student Chapter - 178431
ACM Headquarters expressed appreciation to
Dr. Krishnan R,
Professor, CSE, DSCE, for his leadership, commitment, and contributions towards carrying out his responsibilities in the functioning of the Chapter at the highest level during in the past year as a Faculty Sponsor.
Publications
Publication is a good way towards achieving scientific visibility, and recognition from the scientific community in his/her area of research. Computer Science and Engineering department encourages and motivates both students and faculty members alike to publish their work in reputed peer reviewed journals and conferences and to move forward in their respective field of research interest.
The major objective of the department of CSE is to make the students industry ready. CSE, DSCE has rigorous and elaborate action plan to facilitate the student through this process. Right from involving industry experts in syllabus framing to bringing the alumni to address the students and guide them through the placement process to mentoring budding entrepreneurs – the department leaves no stone unturned.
/academics/ug/computer-science-engineering
ADMISSIONS OPEN FOR THE YEAR 2022-2023
To create a competent learning ecosystem that deepens and advances the understanding of technology and management to develop innovative, principled and insightful leaders who change the world
To imbibe analytical and critical thinking skills for problem-solving.
To inculcate best teaching-learning practices.
To create an ecosystem for innovation, multidisciplinary research and skill enhancement in disruptive technologies.
To collaborate with industry partners to make students industry-ready.
To develop professional leaders with good values and ethics.
DSCE in partnership with India’s leading IT Service and Consulting Company, TCS, is offering an exciting four-year specialized B.E course in Computer Science and Business Systems to cater to the rising need of engineering talent with competency in technology. This is a unique undergraduate program crafted for NextGen Business Engineers by global industry experts and academicians as per Industry 4.0 requirements. The program is designed to enhance the employability skills of the students and enable them to use latest computer technology in building a business management system and meet the ever changing needs and demands of the industry. The students are exposed to learn the recent trends such as Computational Statistics, Software Development Models, Design Thinking, Cognitive Science & Analytics, Machine Learning, Business Intelligence to name a few.
The main goal of this course is to make sure that the students not only know the core topics of Computer Science but also develop an equal understanding of Management Sciences and Human Values. The focus is on holistic learning and empowering students to make significant contributions at all levels to foster sustainable growth amidst ever changing professional demands and societal needs.
Dr Archana S Nandibewoor
Associate Professor & HOD
MOU with Tata Consultancy Services
The Department of CSBS signed MoU with Tata Consultancy Services
Visit to DSU
The Department of CSBS visited to DSU, Devarakaggalahalli, Harohalli campus on 23rd June 2023.
Dream, Dare, Do: Empowering Students to become Entrepreneurs
The Department of CSBS organized workshop on Dream, Dare, Do: Empowering Students to become Entrepreneurs on 12/8/2023.
Digital Dexterity
The Department of CSBS organized workshop on Digital Dexterity on 12/8/2023.
/academics/ug/csbs
Globalization has led industries to march towards electronic mode of operations for day to day activities. Protection of each bit of data in both authorized and authentic mode is one of the dire needs in today’s scenario. Our engineers should therefore be aware and competent to carry out tasks in the cyber world with high data integrity and security. Branch of Computer Science and Engineering has spread its tentacles in all domains of business solutions and cyber security is one such branch which is most promising and emerging vertical of Computer Science.
Students in this branch will be equipped to learn how to protect their applications, products and services from being misused or hacked. This being a specialization course will make students to be more challenging and completely industry ready. They will learn to be successful network engineers having skill set in digital forensics, cyber issues, and cyber risk management. They can turn out to be potential network architect, cyber defense analyst, digital forensics specialist and analyst as well technopreneur.
Dr.Mohammed Tajuddin
9844318073
/academics/ug/cyber-security
: Apply the knowledge of mathematical, analytical and statistical concepts to solve real world complex engineering and business problems
: Achieve proficiency in system design and development using both hardware and software based systems, assess hazards and find innovative solutions.
: • Harness the multidisciplinary approach of Data Science to build intelligent applications across various domains, enabling data-driven decision-making.
To create an immersive learning environment in Computing and Data Science, focusing on industry-specific skills, for students to succeed as globally-aware, data-driven analytical engineers who contribute substantially to society.
To imbibe deep analytical thinking and data driven problem solving skills in students.
To provide an excellent learning environment through the contemporary teaching learning practices to excel in data-driven world.
To create an environment that inspires technological innovation and promote multidisciplinary Research and Development.
To collaborate with industry partners to nurture young minds to ensure career preparedness.
To groom professionals with exemplary values and ethics to meet the societal needs.
The Department of Computer Science (Data Science) creates experts in innovative methods for solving data-intensive science problems. Our goal is to ensure that our engineering graduates are well prepared to become subject expert in a particular field of data science (machine learning, predictive modelling, etc). Our objective is to empower our students to attain excellence in data analytics through focused multidisciplinary research and training. We facilitate Industry relevant syllabus with latest tools & techniques used in Data Science to our students. Our aim is to provide a composite skillset of statistics, programming and communication skills and make our students industry ready.
Dr. Harish H Kenchannavar
Professor & HOD
9292059084
News & Event
Mr. Livansh Malhotra 3rd semester student of CSE (Data Science) participated in IEEE Vecular innovation Society Ideathon- INNOFUSE on 23rd December 2025 at DSCE and won 2nd prize.
Balancing Ideas: A design thinking approach to AVL and RED-BLACK Trees
Department of CSE (Data Science) conducted a Technical Talk on on 12th December 2025 on the topic “Balancing Ideas: A design thinking approach to AVL and RED-BLACK Trees”.
Research to Innovation: Publishing Excellence,Citations,TRL and Fundable Project Proposals
Department of CSE (Data Science) conducted a Research Talk on 12th of December 2025 on the topic “From Research to Innovation: Publishing Excellence,Citations,TRL and Fundable project Proposals”.
Analytical Thinking and Solutions
Department of CSE (Data Science) conducted a Workshop on 10th December 2025 on the topic “Analytical Thinking and Solutions”.
CICADA Inter Collegiate Tech
Mr/Ms Ananya Gupta, 3rd semester student of CSE (Data Science) participated in 24 Hour Hackthon conducted during CICADA inter Collegiate Tech fest held at Atria Institute of Technology , Bangalore on and won 1st prize.
/academics/ug/data-science
Department of Computer Science & Engineering IoT & Cyber Security including Block chain are specialized fields of Information Technology (IT). In today’s world everything is connected to the Internet for ease to access, to monitor and control the devices across the world. This provides an opportunity to automate different task and move all the communicating devices to be communicated through the Internet. IoT is the most important technology for 21st century and it connects the device from home to industry, device to device or human to device. The various industry which uses IoT are Manufacturing, Automotive, Transportation and Logistics, Retail, Public Sector, Health Care, Agriculture.
The general safety across all industry is the requirement of securing these devices and its network. To secure the data generated due to communication between the devices, device to humans, and personal information are in demand. Cyber Security courses aims to equip the students with the knowledge and skills required to defend your data, devices, and personal information from the attacker. This course provides a wide variety of opportunity in IT sector and in other manufacturing and production industries.
9538898320
A cutting-edge technology to the students to develop and innovate in Internet of Things & Cyber Security, including Block chain which proves to be an essential part for any organization.
Impart value based technical education of global standards.
To nurture teamwork in order to transform individuals as responsible leaders and entrepreneurs in Computer Science and Engineering in IoT & Cyber security including Blockchain.
To strengthen the alumni and industrial association for development of students leading to technical and socio-economic growth.
/academics/ug/iotcsbct
Top Computer Science and Design College in Bangalore | DSCE
Industry and Academic Mentors
1.Bapu S Bindhumadhava,
Scientist “G” and Senior Director
Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC)
Immediate past chairman IEEE Computer Society, Chair – IEEE Bangalore Section.
https://www.cdac.in/
2.Dr. KRUSHNA CHANDRA GOUDA,
Principal Scientist and AcSIR Coordinator
CSIR Fourth Paradigm Institute
NAL Belur campus, Bangalore-37
https://csir4pi.res.in
3.Santhosh Rebello,
University Program Manager for India
Asia Pacific Team, MuleSoft, Salesforce
4. Mrs. Divya Singh
Senior Director Applications Program Management,
Fusion Strategy,Oracle India Pvt Ltd
https://www.oracle.india.com/
5. Mr. Harsha Chaturvedi,
COO at EOX Vantage
https://www.eoxvantage.com/
6. Mr. Guruprasad H D
Senior Director of Engineering
Zeta Suite
http://www.zeta.tech/in
7. Mr. Raghunandan Manchenahalli
Director, Dover Innovation India Pvt. Ltd
8. Mr. Raghavendra Kulkarni
Senior Project Manager
https://www.sa.global/int/
9. Dr. Joy Prabhakaran
Technology Consultant
Tata Elxsi
https://www.tataelxsi.com/
10. Dr. Molla Ramizur Rahman
Assistant Professor - Finance
Amrut Mody School of Management Ahmedabad University
11. Mr. Udit Kulmi
Director - Business Development
TechXR Innovations Pvt. Ltd.
Welcome to the Department of Computer Science and Design, an emerging branch in the field of Computer Science.
The current pace of advancement in this field has brought about a need for a specialized branch in Design to address the necessity for designing and developing applications for a great user experience and convenience.
This course is designed to provide students with a good insight into Computing techniques, digital analytics, mobile application development, Animations, Virtual Reality and Virtual Augmentation etc. While we delve deep in these areas, we also provide the breadth in other emerging technologies such as Cloud computing, Cyber Security which is much required for an under graduate course of this nature.
The objective of this program will be to provide an increasing focus on User Interface Design, User Experience and other Design methods for a wide variety of IT products and services across all industry verticals. It is imperative for us to create an environment of academic excellence, while encouraging students to bring out their creative best, in this emerging and evolving field of Computer Science, in order to prepare them for a promising career in this very competitive job market.
Dr. Suma V
Vice Principal
Professor and Head, Computer Science and Design
Contact Number
: 9591076602
Computer Science and Design Engineering Department shall architect the most innovative programs to deliver competitive and sustainable solutions using cutting edge technologies and implementations, for betterment of society and research
To adopt the latest industry trends in teaching learning process in order to make students competitive in the job market
To encourage forums that enable students to develop skills in multidisciplinary areas and emerging technologies
To encourage research and innovation among students by creating an environment of learning through active participation and presentations
To collaborate with industry and professional bodies for the students to gauge the market trends and train accordingly
To create an environment which fosters ethics and human values to make students responsible citizens
/academics/ug/csd
Top Chemical Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
The graduates will be able to
: Apply chemical engineering principles to develop, design, analyse, and optimize chemical and allied industrial processes.
: Adopt emerging technologies, including modelling & simulation, optimization and AI to process and allied industries.
: Develop cost-effective, environmentally-friendly, sustainable and socially responsible process engineering solutions aligned with industry and societal needs.
: Establish successful careers, pursue higher education, or develop entrepreneurial ventures by applying chemical engineering knowledge and skills.
: Commit to lifelong learning, innovative research, and emerging technologies in chemical engineering.
: Collaborate ethically with multidisciplinary teams to deliver sustainable and safe process engineering solutions for societal and environmental benefit.
To disseminate quality education in Chemical Engineering through fundamentals, research and development for the benefit of industry and society.
To provide concepts in theoretical and Practical aspects of Chemical Engineering.
To implant research culture with team work to become successful professionals.
To inspire the students to take part in co-curricular activities to meet societal challenges.
Department of Chemical Engineering is one of the old Departments in DSCE, started in year 1982 with 30 intake, increased to 60 in 2007. Also M.Tech was started in the same year.
Department is accredited twice by NBA, once for 5 years. Department is recognized research center under VTU to pursue M.Sc. (Engg by Res) and PhD. It has well established laboratories.
Department has well qualified both, experienced and young faculty who have graduated from reputed institutions like NITK. The faculty as well as students take pride themselves in continually evolving in to well-rounded personalities.
Dr. Jagannathan Krishnan
: +91-80-42161740
Engineering Conclave
Engineering Conclave is conducted every academic year to validate & update the curriculum to meet industry requirements. The conclave provides an opportunity for academicians, researchers & engineers a common platform to discuss the industry – academia gap and provide solutions by updating the curriculum to bridge the gap.
Invited talk
An Invited talk was organized by Department of Chemical Engineering under Chemical Engineering Association on 7th March 2020.
BRAIN STORMING SESSION
Department of Chemical Engineering organized a Brain Storming session on Curriculum with an aim to review the syllabus.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Chemical Engineering (CH).
Dr. R Ravishankar
Dr. Veena B R
Dr. Mahadevaraju G K
Prof. Karthik K V
Dr. M R Rajani
Prof. Mahesh Kumar Shetty
Dr. Deepa H A
Prof. Shruthi S. B
Dr. Seema Sakkara
FACULTY INFO
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
The Department regularly organizes Expert Lectures, inviting experienced and prominent experts to enrich the knowledge of our students on recent developments in industrial technology and research. Webinars are also a regular part of the department activities helping students to connect with professionals overseas as well as alumni pursuing higher education in reputed universities overseas.
The class rooms are equipped with overhead projectors.
The laboratories are equipped with the state of the art equipment.
The department also houses a library with over 1000 books and copies on various courses, soft copies of various journals and project thesis being added regularly.
A dedicated research laboratory with advanced equipment’s like Gas Chromatography, Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry.
Three of the faculty members are Doctorates from National Institute of Technology, Karnataka and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Anantapur, while nine faculty members are pursuing PhD in core areas of research on waste management, Bio fuels, Nano Technology in photovoltaics and photo catalysis and fuels from plastics.
The department has ongoing projects funded by Vision Group of Science and Technology – VGST, Karnataka State Council of Science and Technology - KSCST and have successfully completed project on UKIERI-PTS on Health and Safety funded by British Council and MODROBS, funded by AICTE, DRDO, Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers – IIChE.
To inculcate research interest, students right from their second year of the programme are also involved in research activities of the department.
The department organizes national level Technical symposium – CHEMOVATION, a platform that brings students from various states to showcase their projects and expert lectures by professionals from industries and researchers.
The department has constituted an association called Chemical Engineering Association – ChEA, headed by a senior faculty and run by student representatives, aimed to actively promote all round development of students. ChEA provides a platform for students to plan, organize and host many technical and non-technical events.
Chemical Day, is one such event which students look eagerly to organize activities like technical paper and poster presentations, quiz, modeling, cultural and sports etc. and also actively participate to show case their talents.
Students have constantly bagged top ranks in VTU and have also won BEST STUDENT awards at state level.
Scholarships are awarded to deserving students to aid their academics.
The department has projects funded by various National and State funding agencies
Students participate in various National conferences to show case their projects and win accolades for their work.
Student’s talents in sports and cultural are identified and encouraged.
Faculty publish their research work in various reputed National and International journals.
Students participate in conferences, seminars and are publishing their work in journals
Department brings out an annual newsletter,- “CATALICA”, publishing the faculty and students’ achievements, activities of department, University Ranks bagged by students and articles by faculty and students.
Department brings out souvenirs during Chemovation, national level symposium.
PLACEMENT STATISTICS
Students have been placed in MNC companies like Wood Group Kenny India Pvt ltd,
Mangalore Chemicals and fertilizers ltd, Cipla ltd, Enventure Engineering, Biocon, Techniche Engineering Pvt Ltd, Tek systems, Shell India Markets Pvt Ltd.
/academics/ug/chemical-engg
Top Civil Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
"National Seminar 2023”
"About the Department ”
"Media Coverage ”
Dr H. K. Ramaraju was INVITed TO BE A POSTER JUDGE AT THE SINGAPORE INTERNATIONAL WATER WEEK (SIWW) WATER CONVENTION 2022
Department of Civil Engineering has got Rs.1,00,000/- grant from SCIENCE & ENGINEERING RESEARCH BOARD (SERB) for Seminar Symposia under the titled "Sustainable Advanced Wastewater treatment Technologies” by Prof B T Shivendra and Mr. Vinay A
Department of Civil Engineering has got Rs.19,95,686/- grant in aid from Kudremukh Iron Ore Company Limited for Research and Development on "Synthesis of Kudremukh Iron Ore Mine Tailings based Geopolymer Aggregate using Fly Ash as Precursor in Construction Industry" by Dr. H K Ramaraju and Mr. Abhinandan
ENGINEER'S DAY
PEO 1 :
Take up career in sustainableinfrastructure development for the benefit of society.
PEO 2 :
Pursue higher education with the mindset of continuous up gradation.
PEO 3 :
Work with different soft skills to meet the industrial needs.
:Analysis and Design of structures, transportation systems, water resource management and environmental aspects.
: Develop sufficient knowledge to provide sustainable environment in the respective field of study.
: Apply the construction strategies for socio-economic development
Emerge into a center of excellence providing globally competent engineers oriented towards research, innovation and sustainable development of the society.
Disseminate quality education and provide a research environment.
Foster experimental and professional skills.
Inculcate the importance of ethics and sustainability.
Civil Engineering – known as Mother of all Engineering Branches is a broad discipline that unifies the specialization like Environmental Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering, Hydraulics and Water Resources Engineering, Construction Materials and Management, Structural Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Planning & Architecture.
: +91-80-42161619
Glacier Preservation
The Institution of Water Engineers, Karnataka, in collaboration with the Indian Water Works Association (IWWA), Bengaluru Centre, organized a debate competition on the theme "Glacier Preservation" on 22nd March 2025, in celebration of World Water Day at Jalaseva Bhavan, BTM Layout, Bangalore.
Higher Education Overseas
Education plays a pivotal role in shaping the future of individuals and societies. With the increasing interconnectivity of the world, global education systems are evolving to provide enhanced opportunities for students and professionals.
Water & Sanitation: Health, Environment and Afforestation
Organised by Department of Civil Engineering, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE), Shavige Malleshwara Hills, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bangalore-560111 and Indian Water Works Association (IWWA), Youth Forum Bangalore at Melukote, Pandavapura Taluk, Mandya District.
Innovation in Sustainable and Digital Construction Practices
1st International Conference on Innovation in Sustainable and Digital Construction Practices (ISDCP 2025) on 23rd-25th January 2025.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Civil Engineering (CV).
M.Tech Programme in Structural Engineering (CSE).
M.Tech Programme in Highway Technology (CHT) .
Dr. H K Ramaraju
Dr. G P Shivashankara
Dr. B R Manjunatha
Dr. R Shanthi Vengadeshwari
Dr. G Venkatesha
Dr. Sowmya H N
Dr. Shiva Kumar G
Dr. R Gokulan
Dr. Vinay A
Dr. Geetha L
Dr. Ravindranath C
Dr. Sudeep Y H
Dr. Sathvik S
Dr. Karthik M
Dr. Karthik S
Dr. Christo George
Dr. Sumesh M
Dr. Doma Hemanth Kumar
Mrs. Meghashree M
Mr. Sanjeev T P
Mrs.Tahera
Mr. H N Sridhar
Mr. Shahaji Patil
Mr. Nitin Kumar
Mrs. Ashwini Satyanarayana
Mrs. Spoorthy Sadashiv Shanubhog
Mrs. Nagamani K T
Mr. Ujwal M S
Mr. Raghavendra H N
Mr. Raghavendra Prajwal H S
Mrs. Harshitha M
Mrs. Vidyashree J C
Mrs. Swetti Jha
Ms. Vibhashree N
Mr. Raghavendra Mahesh
Ms. Madhura R
Mr. Sankalp
Ms. Thanushree A.N
CIVIL DEPARTMENT
Mr. Venkatesh, who is an expert and certified trainer in the field of CAD/CAM/CAE delivered the technical talk addressing the second and third year B.E Civil engineering students.
Department has well equipped laboratories with UPS Support. Department has library of 120 sq feet containing around 1000+ books with seating capacity of 10.
Science and Engineering Research Board has sanctioned Rs. 1,00,000/- for the conduction of Seminar Symposia on
"Use of solar energy as a water pumping system for irrigation Purpose"
and Indian Space Research Organisation has sanctioned Rs.50,000/- for conducting Seminar Symposia on
"Role of GIS/GPS in integrated water resources management."
The Department of Civil Engineering, DSCE Bangalore-78 , Under Community Services Committee is organizing Environmental Awareness Programme & Swachh Bharath Abhiyan.
Department of Civil Engineering congratulates for Dev Anand Thakur bearing USN 1DS14CV030 for securing 7th Rank in Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) for 18th Annual Convocation.
PUBLICATIONS
Analytical Study of Strengthening of RCC Beam Openings by BFRP Composites using ABAQUS.
/academics/ug/civil
Top Electrical & Electronics Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
Program Outcomes
PO1: Engineering Knowledge:
Apply knowledge of mathematics, natural science, computing, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization as specified in
WK1 to WK4
respectively to develop to the solution of complex engineering problems.
PO2: Problem Analysis:
Identify, formulate, review research literature and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions with consideration for sustainable development.
(WK1 to WK4)
PO3: Design/Development of Solutions:
Design creative solutions for complex engineering problems and design/develop systems/components/processes to meet identified needs with consideration for the public health and safety, whole-life cost, net zero carbon, culture, society and environment as required.
(WK5)
PO4: Conduct Investigations of Complex Problems:
Conduct investigations of complex engineering problems using research-based knowledge including design of experiments, modelling, analysis & interpretation of data to provide valid conclusions.
(WK8)
PO5: Engineering Tool Usage:
Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering & IT tools, including prediction and modelling recognizing their limitations to solve complex engineering problems.
(WK2 and WK6)
PO6: The Engineer and The World:
Analyze and evaluate societal and environmental aspects while solving complex engineering problems for its impact on sustainability with reference to economy, health, safety, legal framework, culture and environment.
(WK1, WK5, and WK7)
PO7: Ethics:
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, human values, diversity and inclusion; adhere to national & international laws.
(WK9)
PO8: Individual and Collaborative Team work:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse/multi-disciplinary teams.
PO9: Communication:
Communicate effectively and inclusively within the engineering community and society at large, such s being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations considering cultural, language, and learning differences.
PO10: Project Management and Finance:
Apply knowledge and understanding of engineering management principles and economic decision-making and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, and to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
PO11: Life-Long Learning:
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability for i) independent and life-long learning ii) adaptability to new and emerging technologies and iii) critical thinking in the broadest context of technological change.
:Graduates will have the ability to apply the knowledge of Electrical & Electronics Engineering to excel in their career path.
:Graduates will be confident to work in flexible and diverse professional fields.
:Graduates will have commitment and awareness to thrive in their ethical and social responsibilities
:Graduates will have the ability to pursue higher education, engage in research and development, benefit from quality education and state-of-the-art facilities, and commit to lifelong learning processes.
PSO-1:
The students will be able to apply the knowledge of mathematics, and applied science principles to solve diverse problems in the field of Power systems and Control of Electric Drives catering to Industrial, Research, Service and allied areas.
PSO-2:
The students would be competent in identifying, analyzing and exhibiting the skills in providing solutions to problems related to control electronic systems using various modern tools.
PSO-3:
The students will be able to demonstrate proficiency in design and development of different electrical and electronics system as per specified standards.
Teaching,Learning Process at EEE Department
Videos Of Pactical Lab Experiments
The department of EEE is has a bank of videos related to lab experiments which can be viewed by the students to get more acquainted with the experiments. The labs are also equipped with additional experiments apart from the curriculum for knowledge enhancement of students.
Sample Videos
1.) LD_LAB- BOOLEAN_EXPRESSION
2.)CS LAB-SYNCHRO PAIR_ CHARS
3.)AEC _LAB_CLAMPER CIRCUIT
4.)MC_LAB_WAVEFORMGEN_DAC
5.)HV_LAB_FUSE CHARS
6.) DCM_LAB_SLIPTEST
7.) CSM_LAB_TWO WATTMETER
8.) PE_LAB_FULLWAVE_RECTIFIER
9.) TIM_LAB-SUMPNERTEST
10.) PSS_LAB_SWING CURVE
Online & Offline Technical Quizzes
The department of EEE is continually engaged in conducting technical quizzes for students as an alternative method to assess the learning abilities of its students
Skill Enhancement Course Modules
The department of EEE has developed course modules and material related to power electronics, Opamps& linear ICs and Logic design using simulation tools for the students to have hands on experience on the related concepts.
Mini Project & Poster Presentation
The faculty of the department encourages and guides the students in developing mini projects related to their interested topics in the curriculum. The students can also carry out poster presentation on their choice of technical topics.
Physical Demonstration and Explanation of Electrical Apparatus
The department of EEE is keen in enhancing the student’s awareness towards practical concepts of the program and in this regard efforts are taken by the faculty to demonstrate and explain the significance of various electrical apparatus used in day today life.
Guidelines for Electrical Drawing and Layout Preparation
The students are made to acquaint with the importance of electrical drawings and electrical layouts using software tools.
Lab-View Based Visual Learning of Basic Electrical Engineering Concepts
The students of EEE Dept. are facilitated in learning the basic electrical engineering concepts in a visualized way using lab view based animations.
NPTEL Videos, Lecture Videos & PPTS
The faculty of the department has adopted the practice of using presentation slides and videos wherever necessary in their course deliverable. The department library is also equipped with a bank of NPTEL lecture videos related to the program for the access of students.
Knowledge and Attitude Profile
WK1:
A systematic, theory-based understanding of the natural sciences applicable to the discipline and awareness of relevant social sciences.
WK2:
Conceptually-based mathematics, numerical analysis, data analysis, statistics and formal aspects of computer and information science to support detailed analysis and modelling applicable to the discipline.
WK3:
A systematic, theory-based formulation of engineering fundamentals required in the engineering discipline.
WK4:
Engineering specialist knowledge that provides theoretical frameworks and bodies of knowledge for the accepted practice areas in the engineering discipline; much is at the forefront of the discipline.
WK5:
Knowledge, including efficient resource use, environmental impacts, whole-life cost, reuse of resources, net zero carbon, and similar concepts, that supports engineering design and operations in a practice area.
WK6:
Knowledge of engineering practice (technology) in the practice areas in the engineering discipline.
WK7:
Knowledge of the role of engineering in society and identified issues in engineering practice in the discipline, such as the professional responsibility of an engineer to public safety and sustainable development.
WK8:
Engagement with selected knowledge in the current research literature of the discipline, awareness of the power of critical thinking and creative approaches to evaluate emerging issues.
WK9:
Ethics, inclusive behavior and conduct. Knowledge of professional ethics, responsibilities, and norms of engineering practice. Awareness of the need for diversity by reason of ethnicity, gender, age, physical ability etc. with mutual understanding and respect, and of inclusive attitudes.
To meet the challenging needs of society by innovation, problem solving and to develop an exciting and supportive learning environment that transforms our students and inspires them to make a real difference in their career and society.
To provide an enduring learning environment that facilitates the students to pursue their higher education.
To train students with diverse skills to work professionally in various fields through innovative teaching and learning processes, imparting the highest standards of quality education and providing state-of-the-art facilities while nurturing research and development.
To provide value based and behavioural training programs that help students in developing their overall professional competence and social awareness.
Greetings and welcome to the Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) Department at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering in Bangalore. As the Head of the Department, I am proud to lead a community where education and innovation go hand in hand and where we strive to provide a transformative learning experience that is both challenging and supportive. The EEE Department at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering was established in 1979 and has since reached numerous achievements, including (i) receiving accreditation from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) in New Delhi four times, (ii) holding a permanent affiliation with Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), etc.
Dr. Premkumar M
Professor and Head,
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
: +91-80-42161743
Intelligent and Sustainable Power and Energy Systems
The Department of EEE is organizing a 3rd International Conference on "Intelligent and Sustainable Power and Energy Systems (ISPES 2025)" from 18 - 19 December 2025.
FDP on "Applications of AI Techniques in Modern Power and Energy Systems"
The Department of EEE is organizing a one week Faculty Development Program on “Applications of AI Techniques in Modern Power and Energy systems” from 21st to 26th of August 2025.
Virtual Prototyping and Simulation of Power Electronic Converters for Electric Vehicle and Renewable Energy Systems
The Department of EEE is organizing a webinar series on “Virtual Prototyping and Simulation of Power Electronic Converters for Electric Vehicle and Renewable Energy Systems” from 18th to 22nd of August 2025.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Electrical & Electronics Engineering (Four years)
Ph.D/M.Sc Engg. by Research (Under VTU)
Dr. P Usha
Dr. P B Savitha
Dr. Saravanakumar R
Dr. Soni M
Dr. Arjun Kumar GB
Dr. Balamurugan M
Dr. Gopisetti Manikanta
Dr. Sharath Kumar Y N
Dr. Suchana Mishra
Rachana M Hullamani
Dr. Sumana S
Satish B A
Ganesha G C
Deekshitha Arasa
Suganthi N
Dr. Anubhav Kumar Pandey
Dr. Aran Glenn J
Dr. Priyanshu Kumar
Dr. Sridevi H R
Aathira Anil
Dr. Jami Rajesh
DR. ARAN GLENN J
Dr.Rahulkumar J
EEE DEPARTMENT
Centre of Excellence
The Department of EEE, DSCE inaugurated a lab for the "EV Center of Excellence” on 12th June 2025. The CoE lab focuses on providing hands-on exposure to Electric Vehicle technologies.
Electrical and Electronics Engineering Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms and staff rooms with all equipped with projectors.
Research Center
The Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE) Department has been recognized as a Research and Development Centre by VTU since 2012. We are proud to facilitate a comprehensive Doctoral program (PhD) and M.Sc. (Engineering) by research.
The Department of EEE has continuously organizing activities like Workshops, Seminars, and etc. on various topics which are relative to academics and as per industry needs for the benefit of the students and faculties.
Dr.M.Premkumar,AssociateProfessor,dept. of E&EE, DSCE, has participated in a National Workshop on “Advanced Technologies for Electrical Engineering” organized by the Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Sri Sivasubramanian Nadar College of Engineering, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India, from 04-02-2022 to 05-02-2022.
Dr.P.Usha has presented a paper titled ”Design and implementation of a path guidance ballbot for the visually impaired” on June 2021.
The EEE department endeavor to streamline the career options and pave ways for recent graduates to explore new career opportunities. The department regularly organizes various placement activities with the help of industry experts and alumnus of the department who are working in reputed organizations.
/academics/ug/eee
Top Electronics & Communication Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
Students will be able to:
PSO1:
Design, develop and integrate electronic circuits and systems using current practices and standards.
PSO2:
Apply knowledge of hardware and software in designing Embedded and Communication systems.
PEO1:
Successful in industry, academia, or entrepreneurship as a result of a strong teaching learning process, with keen interest in pursuing higher studies in various domains.
PEO2:
Capable of leading technological and managerial projects for serving industry and society with knowledge of Electronics and Communication Engineering.
PEO3:
Competent professional capable of adapting to changing technological scenarios and societal needs, with expertise in relevant domains.
PO1. Engineering knowledge:
Apply the knowledge of mathematics, science, engineering fundamentals, and an engineering specialization to the solution of complex engineering problems.
PO2. Problem analysis:
Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions using first principles of mathematics, natural sciences, and engineering sciences.
PO3. Design/development of solutions:
Design solutions for complex engineering problems and design system components or processes that meet the specified needs with appropriate consideration for the public health and safety, and the cultural, societal, and environmental considerations.
PO4. Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Use research-based knowledge and research methods including design of experiments, analysis and interpretation of data, and synthesis of the information to provide valid conclusions.
PO5. Modern tool usage:
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modelling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
PO6. The engineer and society:
Apply reasoning informed by the contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to the professional engineering practice.
PO7. Environment and sustainability:
Understand the impact of the professional engineering solutions in societal and environmental contexts, and demonstrate the knowledge of, and need for sustainable development.
PO8. Ethics:
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics and responsibilities and norms of the engineering practice.
PO9. Individual and team work:
Function effectively as an individual, and as a member or leader in diverse teams, and in multidisciplinary settings.
PO10. Communication:
Communicate effectively on complex engineering activities with the engineering community and with society at large, such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions.
PO11. Project management and finance:
Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the engineering and management principles and apply these to one’s own work, as a member and leader in a team, to manage projects and in multidisciplinary environments.
PO12. Life-long learning:
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability to engage in independent and life-long learning in the broadest context of technological change.
To achieve continuous improvement in quality technical education for global competence with focus on industry, societal needs, research and professional success.
Offering quality education in Electronics and Communication Engineering with effective teaching learning process in multidisciplinary environment.
Training the students to take-up projects in emerging technologies and work with team spirit.
To imbibe professional ethics, development of skills and research culture for better placement opportunities.
ECE Dept Video
Greetings from the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE), Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering. The Department of ECE at DSCE provides high- quality, innovative technical education at the undergraduate, graduate, and research levels. The department faculty and support personnel are dedicated towards helping students achieve success in today's world by offering them the knowledge and skills required.
Dr. Shobha K R
Professor & HOD,
Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering.
Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Theory in Engineering with Applications in Control Systems and Signal Analysis
Dr. C. Anil Kumar, Dr. C. K. Narayanappa, Prof. Rekha Krishna, Dr. K. R. Varalakshmi, and Dr. S. Ashwini, along with their co-authors, published a research paper titled “Nonlinear Dynamics and Chaos Theory
in Engineering with Applications in Control Systems and Signal Analysis” in the Journal of Interdisciplinary Mathematics.
Tunnel Field Effect Transistors
In the area of intellectual property, Dr. Nithin Kumar N. R., Dr. Dinesha P., and Dr. Madhura R. were granted an Indian patent for their work on Tunnel Field Effect Transistors,
while Dr. Dinesha P. and team filed another patent on a Driver-Calibrated Brake Drag Detection and Alarm System.
Embedded Roots 2025
IEEE SPS DSCE Student Chapter, in association with the Department of ECE, organized the workshop “Embedded Roots 2025” on
8th December 2025. The beginner-friendly workshop focused on hands-on learning in IoT and Embedded Systems, providing students with practical exposure to microcontrollers, sensors, interfacing techniques, and debugging strategies.
Humanoid Robot Controlled by Real-Time Image Processing
Students of the 7th semester ECE department, Edwin C Daison (1DS22EC069), Eshwar L N (1DS22EC071), Sudharshan D Pai (1DS22EC223), and Sujith M S (1DS22EC227), secured First Prize in the Project Expo organized by HKBK College of Engineering for their project titled
“Humanoid Robot Controlled by Real-Time Image Processing,” developed under the guidance of Dr. Pavithra.
ICAISMART 2025
Gowtham O R (1DS23EC079), a 5th semester student, presented a research paper at the ICAISMART 2025 International
Conference held at JSS Academy of Technical Education, Bengaluru.
RISK RIDERS
Team “RISK RIDERS,” mentored by Dr. Jamuna S and Dr. Deepa N. P., comprising Vikith U S, Swasthik Kotian, Yashika C, Vishruth, Gowri Bandak, Aditya, Harshitha A,
and Ritika Shetty, was selected for the second round of the prestigious 1-TOPS program.
Smart India Hackathon 2025
Team Point Blank, including Shubhang Sinha (ECE) and interdisciplinary team members, won a prize money
of ₹1,50,000 at Smart India Hackathon 2025 – Software Edition.
Industrial Visit to ART-PARK
The Department of ECE organized a one-day industrial visit to ART-PARK (ART-Garage) on 16th December 2025. The visit was coordinated by Dr. Sreenath Settur, Dr. Jamuna S, Dr. Deepa N. P., Dr. Suma M. R., Dr. Manasa R., Dr. Madhura R., Prof. Navya Holla, Prof. Sowmya P., Prof. Chaitra S., Prof. Kavita Guddad, and Prof. Ravi Kumar S. Students attended technical talks on robotics,
autonomous systems, embedded systems, and startup ecosystems, followed by a guided tour of ART-PARK facilities
IConSCEPT 2025
Dr. Jamuna S and Hannan Ashrafi (JRF) received a Best Paper Award at IConSCEPT 2025
for their work in the VLSI Design and Embedded Systems track.
Dr. Deepa N. P. achieved multiple recognitions from NPTEL, including Discipline Star, Motivated Learner, and Believer awards.
Research Conclave 2025
Dr. P. Vimala received a Certificate of Research Recognition at Research Conclave 2025 organized by DSCE.
Embedded and IoT
A three-day Skill Development Program on Embedded and IoT was conducted from 4th to 6th December 2025 in association with TechnoVeda Solutions.
The program featured hands-on sessions led by Dr. Sandeep Chapalkar and Mr. Kotresh Mundrungi.
Architecture All Access: Modern CPU Architecture – Key Concepts
An Activity-Based Teaching session titled “Architecture All Access: Modern CPU Architecture – Key Concepts” was conducted for 3rd semester students,
coordinated by Prof. Aishwarya N under the guidance of Dr. Shobha K. R., Head of the Department.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE)
M.Tech Programme in VLSI and Embedded System
Ph.D in Electronics and Communication Engineering.
Dr. SHOBHA K R
Dr. A R ASWATHA
Dr. K.L. SUDHA
Dr. DINESHA P.
Dr. KIRAN A. GUPTA
Dr. M. ROOPA
Dr. JAMUNA S.
Dr. P. VIMALA
Dr. S. THENMOZHI
Dr. PAVITHRA G.
Dr. SAPNA P.J.
Dr. DEEPA N.P.
Dr. ABHISHEK M.B.
Dr. SHASHI RAJ K.
Dr. BASAVARAJ S.S.
Dr. SWAPNIL S. NINAWE
Dr. NINU RACHEL PHILLIPS
Dr. K.N. NAVEEN
Dr. DRUVA KUMAR S.
Dr. SUMA M.R
Dr. TRUPTI S. TAGARE
Dr. MANASA R.K
Dr.  R. MADHURA
Dr.  KUMAR P.
Dr.  R. SANTHOSH KUMAR
Dr. VINAY N A
Dr. YASHASWINI GOWDA N.
Dr. SRIVIDYA L.
Dr. SREENATH SETTUR
Dr. SUMIT SWAIN
Dr. SANTOSH KUMAR SAHU
Mrs. SHAHLA SOHAIL
Mrs.  VIBHA T.G.
Mrs. KAVITA S. GUDDAD
Mrs. SOWMYA P.
Mrs. CHAITRA A.
Mrs. NAVYA HOLLA K.
Mrs. VIDYASHREE K.N.
Mrs. M SHRUTHI
Mrs. BINDU H.M.
Ms. AISHWARYA N.
Mrs. NIRMALA Y.N.
Mrs. LAVANYA K.
Mrs. M. PADMAVATHI
Mr.  RAVI KUMAR S.
Mrs. ASHWINI GOWDA H.B
Mrs. CHANDANA S
Mrs. REHKA KIRSHNA
ARYA SUMAN PATTNAIK
Mrs. RASHMI V K
Ms. SOUJANYA R
Mr. VIVEK PATAK
Ms. SONALI ACHARYA
ECE DEPARTMENT
Events Organised
The Department ECE regularly organizes Expert talks, SDP, Workshops, FDP, to provide students and faculty with insights into emerging technologies and industry trends. The sessions are always led by the distinguished expert in the field, offering valuable discussions on the advancements, limitations and future prospects.
Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms with all equipped with projectors. It has well equipped laboratories with UPS Support. It has library of 20 sq feet containing around 800+ books with seating capacity of 20.
The Department ECE is committed to advancing research in cutting-edge technologies, fostering innovation, and addressing real-world challenges. Our research spans diverse domains, including VLSI design, embedded systems, wireless communication, signal processing, AI, and the Internet of Things (IoT).
Department Newsletter
The Department ECE keeps students, faculty, and researchers informed about the latest developments through the Department News section. All significant events, including research breakthroughs, faculty and student achievements, expert talks, workshops, and industry collaborations, are captured in our monthly newsletter.
The faculties have been grouped under 3 specialized areas of the field viz. Communication, VLSI and Embedded System, Image Processing and Signal Processing. Various Grants have been sanctioned from the organizations like ISRO, DST-IEDC and DRDO.
The Department ECE takes pride in its strong research output, with faculty and students actively contributing to high-impact journals, international conferences & technical symposiums. Through rigorous research and collaboration with academic institutions & industry leaders, we strive to advance knowledge and drive innovation.
/academics/ug/ece
Top Information Science and Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
ug rank list
placement stastics
Student achievements
Student Paid internship details .
Engineering Conclave 2025
Date: 28-06-2025
The Department of ISE is organizing a "Engineering Conclave 2025 " on 28-06-2025.
Cypherquest
Date: 25-04-2025 - 26-04-2025
CYPHERQUEST 2025 a 24-hour ACM Zonal Level HACKATHON will be conducted by the ISE department in collaboration with DSATAM on 25-04-2025 and 26-04-2025.
Catalysis V3.0
Date: 29-03-2025
Catalysis V3.0 the three day technical fest organized by Genesis student forum club of Department of ISE on 29-march- 2025.
Social Connect Event
Date: 14-09-2024
On September 14, 2024, the ISE department organized a social connect event at Government Higher Primary School , Karasavadi Village, Mandya to foster community engagement and support educational initiatives.
Research Avenues in Computer Networks, Communication and Security
Date: 19-08-2024 to 24-08-2024
The Department of ISE is organizing a Faculty Development Program on "Research Avenues in Computer Networks, Communication and Security " from 19-08-2024 to 24-08-2024.
Inauguration of IEEE Information Theory Society and Computer Society Student Chapter
Date: July 5th, 2024
The inauguration of the IEEE Information Theory Society and Computer Society Student Chapter at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering was a momentous occasion, uniting students, faculty members, and industry professionals in celebration of academic excellence and innovation in information theory and computer science.
Introduction to Game Theory and its Applications
Date: 5-06-2023
Technical talk on " Introduction to Game Theory and its Applications" on 5-06-2023 @ Department of ISE from 11:15am- 12-15pm.
To be recognized globally as a premier department in the field of Information Science and Engineering that provides transformative education with a focus on sustainable research and innovation to meet the ever-growing needs of the society.
The Department of Information Science and Engineering is committed to:
Quality Education:
Excellence in education, grounded in sustainable learning practices, critical thinking, and professional ethics.
Innovation:
Transform professionals into technically competent with lifelong learning skills through creativity & innovation ecosystem to solve critical problems, create leaders and entrepreneurs.
Impact on Society:
Preparing graduates of the future alongside the workforce to contribute to the society with a focus on sustainable and inclusive technology.
Welcome to the new way of learning in the Department of Information Science and Engineering (ISE) at DSCE, Bengaluru!
The Department of ISE at DSCE is strongly committed to impart innovative and quality technical education with high standards at undergraduate, postgraduate, and research level. The faculty and supporting staff of the department is committed to prepare our students by providing the expertise and proficiency in Information Science and Engineering and its related fields needed to thrive in our modern society.
Dean Academics, Professor and HOD
Department of Information Science and Engineering.
: +91-80-42161725
Engineering Graduates will be able to:
Apply mathematical and analytical knowledge to solve complex problems through computer programming skills.
Solve real-world engineering problems in information science engineering by applying the principles in Data Science, Network and Security, Gaming and Design, and Machine Intelligence.
PSO3:
Apply technical skills and research skills acquired through professional societies, certification programs, projects, internships and laboratory exercises to solve problems that provide sustainable solutions related to the society and the environment.
Within a few years after graduation, the graduates of Information Science and Engineering will be able to:
Apply appropriate theory, practices, and tools to the specification, design, implementation, maintenance, and evaluation of information science & computing in the workplace or in the advanced studies.
Function effectively as competent professionals, leaders, entrepreneurs or researchers in the workplace, or maintain employment through lifelong learning including professional conferences, certificate programs or other professional activities and societal awareness.
Adapt, contribute and innovate new technologies in their computing profession to the society by working in teams to design, implement, and/or maintain in the key domains of Information Science Engineering.
PROGRAM OFFERED
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Information Science and Engineering (ISE)
M. Tech in Computer Networks and Engineering (CNE)
Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering
Dr. Rajeshwari J.
Dr. K. N. Rama Mohan Babu
Dr. Varaprasad B K S V L
Dr.Mary Cherian
Dr. Chandrakala B M
Dr. Muzameel Ahmed
Dr. Reshma J
Dr. Vaidehi M.
Mr. Sureshkumar M.
Mrs. Prathima Mabel J.
Mrs. Vani K A
Mrs. Rekha Jayaram
Mrs. Radhika T V
Mrs. Shalini K B
Mrs. Bindu Bhargavi S M
Mrs. Madhura J
Dr.Latha A.P
Mr.Bharath B C
Mr. Santhosh Anand
Ms. Preethi Lokesh
Mrs. Ananya S G
Ms. Vijetha
ISE DEPARTMENT
Department Activities
The Department of ISE takes initiatives for overall development of students and give them practical orientation to inculcate employability skills which will help them to face this competitive world. The department activities conducted are focused on imparting technical knowledge along its application in the practical world.
Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms with all equipped with projectors. The important laboratories include: Data Structures Laboratory , Database Applications Laboratory, System software Laboratory, Algorithms Laboratory etc
Dr. Rajeshwari J & Mrs. Shalini K.B
successfully achieved research the grant from
Indian Council of Medical Research
for “Physiological changes and physical appearance of face in healthy newborn babies: a medico technical study” in 2021.
Congratulations to
Bhuvanesh P [1DS18IS023] of 7th sem
for winning
1st Place and grabbing “Gold Medal” with Cash Prize of 21,000 in
IndiaSkills Regional Competition – South,(Skill - Cloud Computing) at Visakhapatnam, A.P , held on
1st to 4th December 2021.
Mrs. Latha A.P
Asst. Professor, Dept of ISE, DSCE. on receiving grant of
Rs. 5,44,000/-
for the project entitled
“ Remote Basic Health Investigation (RBHI) by robotics limbs using Computer Vision Technology ”
from AI & Robotic Technology Park – IISC, Bangalore August 2021
DEPARTMENT PUBLICATIONS
The faculties and students of ISE Department actively pursue research along with the academics and publishes and presents papers in reputed National and International conferences. The results of the research are also published in peer reviewed journals. The details of the same can be viewed here.
/academics/ug/ise
Top Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
Engineering knowledge:
Problem analysis:
Design/development of solutions:
Conduct investigations of complex problems:
Modern tool usage:
Create, select, and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and modern engineering and IT tools including prediction and modeling to complex engineering activities with an understanding of the limitations.
The engineer and society:
Environment and sustainability:
Individual and team work:
Communication:
Project management and finance:
Life-long learning:
Have successful professional career in the core and allied domains
Engage in continuous learning and adapt to modern technology
Work in diverse environments exhibiting team work and leadership quality
PEO 4:
Analyze and provide the solutions to real-life engineering problems for the betterment of society
To meet the challenges of industry and research in the field of Electronics, Instrumentation and Control Engineering by providing quality technical education.
To impart quality education with an understanding of basic concepts.
To enhance knowledge in the core domains of Electronics and Instrumentation by providing a conducive learning environment.
To nurture the students with inter-disciplinary technology by contributing solutions for techno-social issues.
Welcome to the Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE) at DSCE, established in 1992. We offer a robust undergraduate program in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, with an intake of 60. The department takes pride in providing a Ph.D. program, recognized as a research center by Visveswaraya Technological University, Belagavi. Our curriculum is thoughtfully crafted to address the ever-evolving challenges of global technology. Fostering a dynamic student culture, we provide cutting-edge infrastructure facilities, complemented by strong support from top management, ensuring our students excel in their professional journeys.
Dr. SATHEESH KUMAR J
Associate Professor & Head of the Department.
: +91-80-42161735
Industrial Visit
On February 13th, 2024, students from the V semester of the E&IE department had the opportunity to visit Continental Automotive Pvt. Ltd. India, in Bommasandra for an industrial visit. Continental AG is one of the world's largest automotive suppliers and manufacturers of various automotive components, systems, electronics, tires, and technical elastomers.
National Conference
The Department of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering organized the 2nd National Conference on "Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Techniques for Electronics, Control & Automation" (NCAECA-2024) held from February 8th to 10th, 2024. The conference featured insightful keynote speeches from esteemed professionals representing various industries, who shared their invaluable experiences and expertise with the attendees.
HC-900 Honeywell’s Hybrid Controller
One day training program on HC-900 Honeywell’s Hybrid Controller was organized for faculty and students of Dept. of EIE on 11/12/2023. The training was given by Dr. Meenchatchi Sundaram.S, Additional Professor, Manipal Institute, Dept. of Instrumentation Control Engineering.
Industrial Visit To MTR
The purpose of the industrial visit was to provide real-world exposure to food processing automation and instrumentation systems. This visit enhanced the students' understanding of industrial automation, quality control, and the application of instrumentation in the food manufacturing industry.
Best Project of the Year 2022-23
Congratulations to the Project Team Mr. Prajwal Y S, Ms. Sneha M N, Ms. Aishwarya, Mr. Arunkumar guided by Dr. J S Rajasekar and Dr. S P Meharunnisa of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering Department, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering for being awarded for the “BEST PROJECT OF THE YEAR 2022-23” in the 46th Series of Student Project Programme at STATE LEVEL SEMINAR AND PROJECT EXHIBITION held on 11th and 12th August 2023.
Week Long Expert Lecture Series
Department of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering, HOD of the EI&E dept. Dr. J.S Rajashekar, professor, along with the session coordinator Dr. S.P Meharunnisa, assistant professor, Dept. of EI&E organized one-week long expert lecture sessions for students by experts from different platforms from February 6, 2023 to February 11, 2023
Artificial Intelligence for Embedded Systems
The Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bengaluru organised a 5 days' Students Development Training Program on "Artificial Intelligence for Embedded Systems", supported by AICTE MODROB Scheme, New Delhi, in association with STMicroelectronics, Bengaluru, DigiToad Technologies, Bengaluru and Advanced Electronics Systems Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru
Project Innovation Contest-2020
Mr.Balasubramani, Mr.Jnanesh, Mr.Akash of 6th semester have won 3rd prize in the 9th Project Innovation Contest-2020 organized by Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Bhubaneswar, Odisha.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE)
Ph.D programme in Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering (EIE)
FACULTY LIST
Dr. Satheesh Kumar J
Dr. Krushnasamy V. S
Dr. Meharunnisa Begum S. P.
Dr. Silpa Ajith Kumar
Mr. Krishna Mohan
Mrs. Anjana Joshi
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering Department
A seminar on "Robotics Projects" was organized for III and V Semester students of EIE department on -5-09-2024. The session was conducted by Mr. Saurav Kumar, CEO of Robomanthan, Bengaluru, a leading expert in robotics and automation. The seminar aimed to provide students with an in-depth understanding of robotics projects, their real-world applications, and opportunities in the field.
The department is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, including classrooms and tutorial rooms, all furnished with advanced projectors to enhance the learning experience. Furthermore, our laboratories feature cutting-edge research infrastructure, including interdisciplinary and industry-based labs.
The Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering department holds recognition from VTU as a research centre, offering opportunities for PhD/M.Sc. (Engg) programs. Currently, the department is actively supporting the academic pursuits of 10 research scholars who are engaged in the pursuit of their doctoral degrees.
The Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, in collaboration with DigiToad Technologies, has organized a Skill Development Program focused on Sensing & Data Acquisition, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Industry 4.0, and the Internet of Things (IoT) for 5th semester students. The program commenced on 8th October 2024 and will continue throughout the semester, aiming to equip students with industry-relevant technical skills.
The Department of Electronics & Instrumentation Engineering, in collaboration with Samprada Cancer Hospital, organized a Breast Cancer Awareness Program on October 30, 2024. The event aimed to educate participants on the importance of early detection and prevention of breast cancer while fostering a supportive community.
E-Learning
Department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering has taken initiative in developing short online tutorials to help the students understand the fundamental concepts in various subjects.
Dayananda Sagar College of Egngineering has an elite placement division to facilitate the placements for all students...
CONNECT WITH US:
/academics/ug/eie
Top Mechanical Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
:Graduates will be able to apply basic science, mathematics and engineering knowledge to conceptualize, model, design and manufacture physical systems and processes.
: Graduates will be able to utilize the knowledge of advanced engineering tools in design & thermal engineering domain.
:Graduates will be able to lead professionally in an industrial environment by applying the management principles related to organizational planning, leadership, research, production and service activities.
: Graduates shall exhibit the Knowledge and Competency for successful career in Mechanical Engineering and pursue higher studies.
:Graduates shall exhibit the necessary skills and manage to interact in the field of profession with different Cross Functional Groups.
: Graduates shall demonstrate their Engineering Profession by adopting Ethical and Professional practices.
: Graduates shall engage in Professional society interaction, training and research to enable Life Long Learning.
To Prepare Mechanical Engineers having technical competency and managerial skills driven by human values and ignite the young minds capable of addressing ever-changing global issues by research and innovation.
To Provide a platform that imparts Scientific Knowledge and Technical skills.
To Train students to demonstrate their Communication and Managerial skills with Ethical practices.
To Engage students in professional activities through Research, Higher Education and Life Long Learning.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, was started in the year 1979. Our department offers undergraduate courses in Mechanical Engineering with the present intake of 120 students. Department has the excellent Placement record with the students getting placed in reputed core industries as well as IT sectors. Our students have won awards at various technical events, conferences and symposiums held at prestigious institutions. The Department has dedicated and experienced faculty team with more than Nineteen PhDs, driving the department towards excellence in academics as well as R & D activities.
Dr. Srinath M S
Mechanical Department.
: +91-80-42161742
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Mechanical Engineering
Ph.D. program
Dr. Srinath M. S
Dr. M.R.Kamesh
Dr. Venkateswarlu Karodi
Dr. Haseebuddin. M. R
Dr. Shanmuganathan. S. P
Dr. Aruna Devi. M
Dr. M.K.Venkatesh
Dr. Ramesha. H
Dr. Ningegowda B M
Dr.V. R Srinivasan
Dr. Vivek Bhandarkar
Dr. Mohan Das A.N
Dr. P. Sudhakar
Dr. Manjunath. B.T
Dr.Prabhakar Kuppahalli
G.S.Mahesh
H.Rajashekar
M. Madhavamurthy
Vijayakumar N Patil
Govindaraju. H
Krantikumar Kshaurad
Manjunath. S.B
Madhusudhan. M
Vinayaka. H. L
Padmavathi. G
Nithesh Bhaskar. N
Karthik. M. A
Gourav Kumar
Ranjitha P
Girish Kumar. G. S
Ravi Kumar.S.R
Avilasha.B.G
Bindhushree B S
Radha Halagani
Rajesh S.M
Vinayakumar R.
MECHANICAL DEPARTMENT
The Department of Mechanical Engineering organizes technical talks each semester through various events, including: Guest Lecture, Student Development Program, Seminars and Symposiums, Technical Fest
The Mechanical Engineering Department boasts modern labs with research infrastructure, fostering interdisciplinary and industry-oriented learning. Classrooms are equipped with projectors, and labs house high-quality machinery and software. A dedicated library supports students with 1200+ wide range of books.
The department boasts 26 doctorates and 14 faculty members nearing completion of their PhDs. Emphasis is placed on interdisciplinary research, with project grants exceeding ₹1 crore (₹129.055 lakhs). Faculty and students actively publish in peer-reviewed journals and conferences.
The Department of Mechanical Engineering in collaboration with WINSUN GLOBAL TECH PVT. LTD., is hosted a one-week program on AI & ML Applications in Mechanical Engineering fourth-semester & Sixth Semester students
Department of mechanical Organising a International Conference on “Sustainable Design for Manufacturing, Mobility & Energy Systems” (SDMME-2K25) on 18th and 19th September 2025
/academics/ug/mechanical
Top Medical Electronics Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
: Apply the knowledge of electronics for solving diverse problems of Medical Instrumentation
: Analyse and implement different techniques in Medical Image and Signal Processing domains catering to Design, Research and Development
: Provide sustainable solutions in health care and its allied fields by imbibing managerial and techno-social values.
: Apply knowledge of Medical Electronics to excel in their profession
: Practice engineering to analyse problems and find solutions in allied domains using multidisciplinary approach
: Disseminate professional skills for ethical and societal responsibilities
: Engage in lifelong learning and contribute in the field of engineering research
Process of program curriculum
Process of Teaching-Learning Process
Process of Designing the Program Curriculum
Process of Preparation of Curriculum Structure
To develop an excellent centre of progressive quality learning, applied & translational research through inventive collaborations and sustainable solutions to address healthcare related societal challenges
By creating a conducive atmosphere for continuous learning through increased participation of students and faculty in various academic activities
By achieving needful and relevant healthcare solutions through quality education and research
By imparting education in the path of ethical and social responsibilities, to work effectively with diverse groups for the benefit of the society
Department of Medical Electronics has been playing a vital role in producing technologists of leading talents ever since it was established in the year 1996. The Department has applied engineering principles to address medical and biological problems. Over the years the Department has become one of the best Departments in the university.
Dr. Sriraam N
Professor and HOD
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering
: +91-80-42161733
“INNOVATIVE AND FRUGAL ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS TO HEALTH CARE”
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized "INNOVATIVE AND FRUGAL ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS TO HEALTH CARE" on 20TH TO 25TH March 2023.
“Crystalizing Problem Statements for Seeking Digital Healthcare Solutions”
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized "Crystalizing Problem Statements for Seeking Digital Healthcare Solutions" on 6th to 10th March 2023.
Workshop on Embedded Systems and IOT in Healthcare
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized Workshop on Embedded Systems and IOT in Healthcare on 14th to 18th Dec 2022.
Technical Symposium on Current Trends in HealthCare
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized Technical Symposium on Current Trends in HealthCare on Dec 1st 2022.
Invited Talk on Embedded Systems on IOT Application
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized Invited Talk on Embedded Systems on IOT Application on 14th Oct 2022.
Invited Talk on Awareness on Higher Studies
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering organized Invited Talk on Awareness on Higher Studies on 11th Oct 2022
Project Open Day 2022
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering presents Project Open Day 2022 on JUNE 24TH 2022.
TECHNICAL TALK ON COMPUTER AIDED DIAGNOSIS SYSTEMS FOR CT IMAGES
TECHNICAL TALK ON COMPUTER AIDED DIAGNOSIS SYSTEMS FOR CT IMAGES by MR. RAHUL RAMESH
EXPERT LECTURE ON “MEDICAL DEVICES AND REGULATIONS”
EXPERT LECTURE ON “MEDICAL DEVICES AND REGULATIONS” by Mr. BHASKAR CHIKKANNA
TECHNICAL TALK ON SOFTWARE AS MEDICAL DEVICES
TECHNICAL TALK ON SOFTWARE AS MEDICAL DEVICES by Mr. Arun Kohli
Online Expert Lecture on MICROFLUIDICS - FREE HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS
Online Expert Lecture on MICROFLUIDICS - FREE HEALTHCARE DIAGNOSTICS by Dr. V V. RAGHA VENDRA SAI
Three Day Online Workshop On PROTEUS SIMULATiON TOOL
Three Day Online Workshop On PROTEUS SIMULATiON TOOL by Prof Bharadwaj M. & Prot S. Hema Priyadarshini Department of Medical Electronics Engineering, DSCE
National Level Technical Project presentation
Student projects have been selected for paper and poster presentation at National Level Technical Project presentation at Techfinix ’19 at Paavai Engineering College, Namakal, Tamil Nadu on 20th and 21st September 2019.
Arduino workshop
A two-day workshop on 'Hardware Interfacing with Arduino' was conducted at the Department of Medical Electronics, DSCE in association with the student chapter of Instrument Society of India on 24.9.2019 and 25.9.2019 for the students of 3rd semester.
Sagar Hospital Visit
The students of V Sem visited Sagar Hospital as part of the hospital visit program on 5th, 12th & 26th of September 2019 between 2 to 5 pm. They visited radiology department and were exposed to machines & got the practical knowledge of the working of these machines.
Teachers’ day celebration
Teachers’ day celebration was celebrated in the Medical Electronics Department on 5th September 2019, by the student club “AIKYA”. The students shared their opinion on the role of Teachers contribution in shaping their lives.
Workshop on Chatbot Design
Workshop was organized on Chatbot Design on 12-10-2019 in association with ISOI student chapter, Medical Electronics Department, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering.
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) Medical Electronics Engineering
Ph.D Program
Dr. Padma C R
Dr. S. Hema Priyadarshini
Dr. Murigendrayya Hiremath
Dr. Krishnan Bandyopadhyay
Dr. Nanditha Krishna
Prof. Naveen T.S
MEDICAL ELECTRONICS ENGINEERING
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering regularly conducts Expert-Talks.
The Department of Medical Electronics Engineering is well equipped with modern facilities in class rooms and laboratories. An exclusive department library facility is available equipped with latest text books, reference books, e-journals etc.
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering various grants from esteemed research organizations of India like: Visual Group of Science and Technology (VGST), Department of Science and Technology (DST), VGST – TRIP (Technology Related Innovation Project), Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Center (IEDC)/DST, Bangalore.
Basic Healthcare Training to Siemens employees was jointly organized by Department of Medical Electronics Engineering and Centre for Advanced Healthcare, Dayananda Sagar University from 3rd September to 7th September 2018.
Department of Medical Electronics Engineering has bagged 2 UG University ranks for the academic year 2016 – 17and a total of 40 UG University ranks till date.
Journal of Physics: Conference Series, “Early Detection of Diabetic Foot Ulcer”
/academics/ug/medical-electronics
Top Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering College in Bangalore | DSCE
Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Graduates will be able to:
Apply knowledge of mathematics, natural science, computing, engineering fundamentals and an engineering specialization as specified in WK1 to WK4 respectively to develop to the solution of complex engineering problems.
Identify, formulate, review research literature and analyze complex engineering problems reaching substantiated conclusions with consideration for sustainable development. (WK1 to WK4)
Design creative solutions for complex engineering problems and design/develop systems/components/processes to meet identified needs with consideration for the public health and safety, whole-life cost, net zero carbon, culture, society and environment as required. (WK5)
Conduct investigations of complex engineering problems using research-based knowledge including design of experiments, modelling, analysis & interpretation of data to provide valid conclusions. (WK8).
Create, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and modern engineering & IT tools, including prediction and modelling recognizing their limitations to solve complex engineering problems. (WK2 and WK6)
Analyze and evaluate societal and environmental aspects while solving complex engineering problems for its impact on sustainability with reference to economy, health, safety, legal framework, culture and environment. (WK1, WK5, and WK7).
Apply ethical principles and commit to professional ethics, human values, diversity and inclusion; adhere to national & international laws. (WK9)
Communicate effectively and inclusively within the engineering community and society at large, such as being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations considering cultural, language, and learning differences
Recognize the need for, and have the preparation and ability for
Program Educational Objectve
PEO-1:
The graduate envisages the vision of the department, on engineering needs of the country at large and industry in specific and thereby contribute services with perspective of self-sustenance through higher studies, and research in the program domain.
PEO-2:
The graduate enduring the optimally designed curriculum, demonstrates ability to analyze Scientific, Mathematical perspectives of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering and apply its knowledge with multidisciplinary approach for solving real life problems for a successful career.
PEO-3:
The graduate possesses professional attitude for career building in the society, ability to work and lead a team with highest integrity and ethical values for managing large corporate projects through suitable research and development.
PEO-4:
The graduate demonstrates lifelong learning to upgrade knowledge of emerging technologies through training, interaction with professional bodies for finding sustainable solution to changing scenarios of the technology frontiers, emphasizing on security and safety concern of individual and global environment.
Programme Specfic Outcome
To apply fundamental concepts of electrical, electronic devices and circuits to communication theory and systems on par with the electronics and telecommunication industry domain.
To apply the core merits of embedded systems, signal processing and network protocols for electronics and telecommunication standards.
To design secured cognitive collaborative solutions related to electronics and telecommunication systems.
To disseminate quality technical education for achieving Academic Excellence through focused research and innovation encompassing contemporary technologies trends in electronic devices, Telecommunication systems and standards for societal needful applications, of country in specific and global at broader perspective.
By adopting quality curriculum design, associated with standard teaching learning process and assessment techniques; on par with standards for portability of graduates globally.
By educating students towards contemporary technologies through consistent perseverance with the leading industries based on the current socio-economic conditions of the society.
By inculcating research attitude among graduates through lifelong learning in pursuit of academic excellence and career enrichment.
Greetings from the Department of Electronics & Telecommunication Engineering at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering!
Our department strives to nurture technically competent, research-oriented, and socially responsible engineers who can contribute meaningfully to the rapidly evolving domains of communication systems, embedded design, digital electronics, and intelligent networks.
Dr. Jugul Kishor Gupta
: +91-80-42161728
International Conference on ICAETIS 2023
The International Conference on Advances in Engineering and Technology for Intelligent systems (ICAETIS-2023) organized by Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering on the 16th ,17th and 18th May 2023.
Open Day Project Exhibition 2023
Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering ,Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering organized Open Day Project Exhibition 2023 on June 10th to display and showcase their research work for the society.
Webinar on PM Modi Launches 5G Services
Webinar on PM Modi Launches 5G services and inaugurates 6th edition of India Mobile Congress in New Delhi, 10th Oct 2022
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (E & TCE)
M.Tech Programme in Digital Communication & Networking (DCN)
Dr. VINOD B DURDI
Dr. SMITHA SASI
Dr. DEVARAJU R
Dr. SRIVIDYA B V
Dr. SANTHOSH B
Dr. PREETI KHANWALKAR
Dr. SANDEEP K V
Dr. IFFATH FAWAD
Dr. ANITHA SURESH
Dr. RAJESWARI P
Mrs. NAGARATHNA
Mr. JAYANTH C
Mrs. PUSHPA B.R
Mr. CHETAN UMADI
Mrs. AMBIKA NAIK Y
ELECTRONICS AND TELECOMMUNICATION DEPARTMENT
Invited talk on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning by Mr. Poorna Pragna the Alumni and Entrepreneur of Telecommunication Engineering Department for 6th semester students.
TCE Department has class rooms, tutorial rooms with all equipped with projectors.Department has well equipped laboratories with UPS Support.IEEE access for both students and faculties.
Faculty Members of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Registered for Doctorate Program.and TEC Department has successfully completed 1 projects on Investigation of speed and power in sub 100nm memory circuits.
Five days Faculty Development Programme on Embedded Systems & IoT Applications was held in the department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering during 26th – 30th July 2019 in association with Texas Instruments University Program.
Department ETE, had the inauguration Ceremony for the “Industry on Campus” with “Zesty Beanz Technology” a global company for IoT solutions on 20th February 2025. The inauguration was at the hands of Dr. B. G. Prasad, Principal, DSCE and Mr. Leepesh, MD, Zesty Beanz Technologies, Thiruvananthapuram
The faculty of TEC Department have published various papers in various occasions they have published so many journals.they have attended international conferences.
/academics/ug/telecommunication
: Graduates will excel in designing, developing, and deploying innovative solutions in robotics and artificial intelligence, leveraging interdisciplinary knowledge in engineering, computer science, and mathematics.
: Graduates will engage in cutting-edge research and tackle complex engineering challenges in robotics and AI through critical thinking, advanced analytical techniques, and creative problem-solving approaches.
: Graduates will be prepared for successful careers in industries related to robotics, automation, AI, and related domains or as entrepreneurs capable of developing novel technologies and startups.
: Graduates will apply their knowledge of robotics and AI responsibly, considering ethical implications, sustainability, and the societal impact of their work on global challenges.
Welcome to the Department of Robotics and Artificial Intelligence, where interdisciplinary innovation drives the future of intelligent systems. Our engineering program is designed to provide a strong foundation across key domains such as Mechatronics, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Robot Operating System (ROS), and Robotic Design, while also integrating advanced technologies like Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Computer Vision. These areas empower robots to interact intelligently with both humans and their environments, enabling applications from autonomous navigation to smart manufacturing and assistive technologies. The curriculum blends theoretical learning with hands-on experience, encouraging students to design, build, and program autonomous systems capable of sensing, understanding, and adapting to real-world challenges. Through cutting-edge labs, research- driven instruction, and industry partnerships, we aim to develop innovative engineers ready to lead in the fast-evolving fields of robotics, automation, and AI-powered solutions.
Dr. Nagendra J
08042161741
To provide students with a comprehensive and cutting-edge education in Robotics and Artificial Intelligence to the highest quality who are professionally competent and highly qualified to tackle real-world problems and innovations by promoting excellence in teaching, learning and research.
Provide high quality education that imparts Scientific Knowledge and Technical skills to fulfil the requirements of a ‘Global Engineer’.
Training their Communication and Managerial skills for promoting technology transfer, supporting start-up and collaborating with industry partners to translate research into real-world solution.
Inculcate students in professional activities with ethics, integrity, honesty and credibility, social and environmental consciousness.
/academics/ug/robo-ai
Courses offered
Telecom Alumni side
Courses Type                         :
Post Graduate
Duration                                  :
Two Years (4 Semesters)
Department                             :
Department of Civil Engineering
Specialization                   :
Structural Engineering (CSE)
Highway Technology (CHT)
Eligibility:
Candidates who got their BE/ B.Tech /AMIE or equivalent degree securing not less than 50% marks in aggregate in Computer Science / Information Science / Electronics & Communication Engineering / Telecommunication Engineering / Electrical & Electronics Engineering.
Under Graduate
Four Years
Candidates who have completed their PUC / (10+2) with minimum of 45% aggregate in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry and should have appeared for at least one of the entrance exams (CET, COMED-K, JEE).
/civil/courses-civil
Electronics & Communication  Engineering
Bachelor of Engineering (BE)
Regular - Autonomous
Bachelor Degree
Course Type
Undergraduate (UG)
Course Duration
4 Years (for Regular Students) for 10 + 2 students … 8 Semesters 3 years (for Diploma / Lateral Entry Students) …. 6 Semesters
Department
Electronics & Communication Engineering (ECE)
Norms for admission
Eligibility to UG
Candidates who have completed or passed their PUC / (10+2) / CBSE / ICSE / State Board or Central Board or equivalent examination with a minimum of 50 % aggregate in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry (PCM) and should have appeared for at least one of the entrance exams (CET, COMED-K, JEE), with any one of the following subjects : Chemistry / Computer Science / Electronics and English as a compulsory subject.
Master of Technology (M.Tech.)
Post-Graduation Degree
Post-graduate (PG)
Total Credits
88
2 Years (Regular) for BE/B.Tech. students … 4 Semesters
Electronics & Communication Engg. (ECE)
Specialization – 1
VLSI Design & Embedded Systems (VLSIDES)
click here for course full details
Eligibility to PG
Candidates who have completed or passed their B.E. / B.Tech. Engineering Examination (ECE, EEE, EIE, TCE, ETCE, Medical Electronics) or equivalent examination with a minimum of 50 % aggregate in the relevant field of Engg. Course in VTU or any other university / institution or any other examination recognized as equivalent degree in any state of the country, PGCET is compulsory / eligible GATE score required.
PhD course
PhD Course
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Engineering
Ph.D. Degree
Research Centre
VTU Research Centre, ECE Dept., DSCE, Bangalore
Full Time (3 to 6 years) / Part Time (4 to 7 years) including the coursework from the date of provisional registration
Eligibility to
PhD Programme
The Candidates shall possess a Master’s Degree in Engineering / Technology or Equivalent Degree or M.S. (Research) Degree from the University or any other University recognized by VTU in the appropriate branch / subject / discipline, with a minimum CGPA of 6.75 out of 10 or 60% aggregate marks at the Bachelor’s & Master’s Degree Levels in Engineering Course. The research scholar can be a faculty of any engineering college either from the host institution or any other engineering college in the country or can be from any industry, but the research guide has to be from DSCE only.
https://vtu.ac.in/en/ph-d/
/electronics-and-communication/courses-ece
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND  ENGINEERING
Duration                                    :
Department                            :
Department of Computer Science & Engineering
Candidates enrolling for PhD at VTU Research Centre of the Department will be receiving a Doctoral degree in Computer Science & Engineering from VTU.
As per AICTE New Delhi and Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Karnataka. For details please
click here.
/computer-science-engineering/courses-cse
Masters in Business Administration | MBA DSCE | Business School
Vision, Mission, PEO & PO
HOD's Message
Courses Offered
Scheme and Syllabus
SC2022-24
SC2024-26 (3rd & 4th Sem)
SC2024-26 (1st & 2nd Sem)
Industry Collaborations
Global Connect
Visiting Faculty
Distinguished Industry Experts
Funded Projects
Consultancy
Achievements
Interactions
Alumni Details
Department Events
Guest Lectures
C K Prahalad Lecture Series
Career Guidance Series
Conference
LCMSD -2023
MTSD -2024
NCASMP-2026
FDP-MDP-SDP
Student Clubs
SUSTAINABLE  PRACTICES
Aim2Flourish
Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurs' Connect
EXECUTIVE EDUCATION
Upcoming Events
Book a Campus Tour
The Department of Management Studies, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering is a globalized center of learning business with an excellent industry interface to leverage the present-day business and academic scenario and to enable the students to face challenges in a competitive manner. Established in 2006, the department's flagship program is a two year MBAaffiliated to VTU (AICTE approved)
"First Semester MCA classes will commence on 13th February 2023, Building no13 opposite to Football ground in OFFLINE mode. "
Click here for the Tentative Time Table
PSO1: Software Engineering and Emerging Technologies Proficiency:
Graduates will be able to design, develop, and maintain software systems by applying core computing principles and leveraging emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, and Cloud Computing.
PSO2: Professional Ethics and Societal Impact:
Graduates will demonstrate professional, ethical, and leadership qualities with a strong sense of societal responsibility, delivering innovative solutions through effective communication and teamwork.
: Graduates will demonstrate the ability to apply theoretical foundations and practical approaches in the design, development, maintenance and evaluation of sustainable and efficient computing systems.
: Graduates will grow into diverse roles such as innovators, entrepreneurs and researchers, showcasing professional distinction in the field of computing.
: Graduates will possess a clear understanding of their professional and ethical responsibilities and implement the same in their workplace/career.
Program Outcomes:
PO1: Foundation Knowledge:
:  Apply knowledge of mathematics, programming, logic, and coding fundamentals for solution architecture and problem solving.
:  Identify, review, formulate, and analyse problems for primarily focusing on customer requirements using critical thinking frameworks.
PO3: Development of Solutions:
:  Design, develop, and investigate problems with an innovative approach for solutions incorporating ESG/SDG goals.
PO4: Modern Tool Usage:
:  Select, adapt, and apply modern computational tools, such as the development of algorithms with an understanding of the limitations, including human biases.
PO5: Individual and Teamwork:
:  Function and communicate effectively as an individual or a team leader in diverse and multidisciplinary groups. Use methodologies such as agile.
PO6: Project Management and Finance:
:  Use the principles of project management, such as scheduling, and work breakdown structure, and be conversant with the principles of Finance for profitable project management.
:  Commit to professional ethics in managing software projects with financial aspects. Learn to use new technologies for cyber security and insulate customers from malware.
PO8: Life-long learning:
:  Change management skills and the ability to learn, and keep up with contemporary technologies and ways of working
To foster progressive learning in Computer Science and Applications through quality education, research and innovation, aiming to develop industry-ready professionals committed to sustainable, inclusive technology for societal and global impact.
To foster an academic culture that encourages students to develop strong analytical, problem-solving and technical skills.
To provide dynamic and experiential learning through collaborative research projects, industry internships and entrepreneurial initiatives focused on sustainable development.
To empower students with ethical values & leadership skills, ensuing in creating a positive impact on society.
Achievers of the Department
The Department of MCA believes in creating a
“want to learn”
culture through state of the art infrastructure. We offer the most effective teaching learning methodologies through class room and practical exercises to cultivate an inquisitive mind-set among students. We aim to be the first choice in the state/country among aspiring computer science graduates. The skills and education imparted enables students to utilize new technologies and prepare them for key technology application and decision-making. The learning experience is wholesome, tailored to suit the needs of the industry and individual career development.
Dr. Samitha Khaiyum
"Mobile Gaming "
ADVAYA – An inter college event organized by Dept. of MCA, RVITM , Bangalore on 11-03-2025 to 12-03-2025
"Machine Learning Techniques with a Demonstration on Azure Services"
The Department of MCA, in collaboration with Institute’s Innovation Council organized an enlightening Guest Lecture on "Machine Learning Techniques with a Demonstration on Azure Services "
"IBM Magic Bus DSCE MCA Skill Development"
The Department of Master of Computer Applications organized IBM Magic Bus DSCE MCA Skill Development on 18th Dec 2024 to 20th Dec 2024.
M.Sc in Engineering
Ph.D in Computer Applications
Dr. Srinivasan V
Dr. Jayanthi R
Dr. Ratha Jeyalakshmi T
Prof. Mahendra Kumar B
Prof. Alamma B H
Prof. Smitha G V
Prof. Raksha Kodnad R
Dr. Pavithra G. Shetty
MCA DEPARTMENT
The department of MCA is more focused on bridging the gap between industry and academia. In views of this, the department invites eminent resource persons from industry to apprise students and faculty members.
At the Department of MCA, the emphasis is on a robust teaching learning process through the utilization of state of the art facilities such as well-equipped laboratories, departmental library and central library with journals and e-books. Students are encouraged to make full utilization of sports facilities, gym, dance studio and meditation room available in the campus
The faculty in the department are involved in research activity such as HCI, Software engineering, HPC, Cloud computing, Computer Networks, Artificial Intelligence and Data Mining. Interested students are encouraged to work with the faculty on various problems. Faculty research papers are published frequently in journals with high impact factor.
The department of MCA encourages the conduction of Webinars, Workshops, Technical talks on Latest trends and technologies. It is a common practice followed in the department to enlighten both students and faculty members on cutting edge technologies.
Our students have exhibited their proficiency by securing ranks every year. A Techno-Cultural fest “Algorythm” is organized annually and to hone the skills of the students.
Students and Faculty members of the department have made significant contributions to research through books, research publications and patents.
/academics/pg/mca
PO 1
: Students can understand the importance of Physics in the practical applications.
PO 2
: Students gain knowledge in various techniques and working principles related to devices or components.
PO 3
:Students get an understanding of the characteristics of various types of materials.
PO 4
:Students will be able to demonstrate an ability to visualize and work in the Physics laboratory and multidisciplinary tasks.
Preparation
: To support the engineering students to develop a scientific attitude in their professional advancement with a basic knowledge in the developments in Science and Technology.
Core Competence
:To impart basic knowledge in Science and Technology and to create a scientific temper in approaching a problem.
: To support the students in gaining knowledge in various principles of Science and Engineering and to train the students in using various scientific measuring equipments.
Professionalism
: To train the students to acquire skills in various principles and equipments in the field of Science and technology.
Learning Environment:
: To provide the students for a professional learning environment to progress themselves to serve the society with a professional manner following the ethics.
To be a competent Physics department which addresses Global challenges emphasizing on development of a sustainable and inclusive technology.
To train students on principles and techniques in Physics.
To give hands on experience on various experiments and measuring instruments.
To collaborate with industry partners and professional societies and make the students industry ready.
To support students in uderstanding the importance of sustainable and inclusive technology and to gain knowledge in interdisciplinary areas of Science and Technology.
Engineering Physics department is one of the oldest departments at DSI and the faculties are experts in the fields of physics and nanotechnology and are leaders in a broad range of physics research, utilizing facilities and technologies that are continually being modified and improved.
Our department was established in 1979, and since then, we have grown into a strong and vibrant department with eminent faculty vigorously pursuing world-class research. Our students have access to state-of-the-art teaching laboratories and are involved in innovative research projects in our research labs.
Dr. C. M. Joseph
: +91-80-42161729
Dr. T. Uthayakumar
Dr. Vidya C
Dr. Aruna P
Dr. Naveen S M
Dr. Priya A Hoskeri
Dr. Meera R Gumaste
Dr. Madhu A
Dr. Keshavamurthy K
Supporting department for Engineering
PHYSICS DEPARTMENT
The Department of Physics, DSCE in association with the circuit branches jointly organized a talk by Dr. Phaneendra K Yalavarthy, Professor in the Department of Computational and Data Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India. on Computational methods in medical imaging and deep learning in medical imaging.
Department of Physics has well equipped smart class rooms. All the UG laboratories in the department are equipped with UPS support. A specialized thin film and nanotechnology lab is available in the department to support the research students.
All the doctorates in the department are registered guides for the VTU recognized research centre and the areas of research includes studies on organic and inorganic sensors and devices.
The Department of Engineering Physics conducts several activities for the first year students apart from their regular academics.
Department of Physics in DSCE focuses on many student centric and faculty centric activities and projects. Department of Physics has sanctioned projects worth Rs 45 Lakhs from various scientific agencies.
All the faculties of Physics department publish their research results in reputed conferences and international journals. Areas of research publications include Materials science, Thin film devices and Sensors.
/academics/common-departments/physics
Dr. K S Anantha Raju
Dr. M Dinamani
Dr. M Sennappan
Dr. S Meena
Dr. B Hemavathi
Dr. P Karuppasamy
Dr. B S Surendra
Dr. Arpita Paul Chowdhury
Dr. G Vidya
Dr. I Pradeep
Dr. Jyoti Krishna Dutta
Dr. Aravind Raviraj Nesaragi
Dr. Swarnalata Swain
Dr. Vinuta Vishnu Kamat
To be a role model to serve the Nation’s needs by encouraging the study of Chemistry as a means for improving the condition of mankind by ameliorating his environment.
To adopt the best pedagogical methods in order to maximize knowledge transfer.
To have adequate mechanisms to enhance understanding of Implementation of theoretical concepts in practical scenarios
To carry out high quality research leading to the creation of knowledge and of intellectual property.
To provide the best facility, infrastructure, and environment to its students, researchers and faculty members.
To impart professional ethics and an approach towards inter- disciplinary thinking by providing them with educational and research opportunities between Chemistry and other fields of study.
Department of Engineering Chemistry was established in the year 1979 and is one of the oldest departments of DSCE. The department offers courses for first year BE and second year Chemical Engineering. Department also offers Ph.D. degree in various specializations of Chemistry.
The Department is equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructure which includes a VTU research center, affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi. The department is currently executing a research project from VGST under the scheme CESEM. The department holds many publications in peer-reviewed international journals with high impact factor. Department of Chemistry has MOU for Research and holds an institutional membership with Electrochemical Society of India, IISc campus. The faculty is experienced, committed, highly qualified with Doctorates in various specializations. Students are encouraged to participate in extra-curricular and co-curricular activities. Industry Institute interaction is nurtured by organizing and coordinating frequent industrial visits, Expert Lectures and Seminars.
: +91-80-42161700
Google Scholar
View Citations
Supporting Department for all the branches of Engineering
Ph.D in Chemistry
News & Events
The Department of Chemistry is active in curricular, co-curricular and research programmes. The latest news and events listings can be found here.
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
As a part of application based learning, Department of Chemistry regularly organizes invited talks for the students and faculty to update themselves with latest and interdisciplinary emerging technologies that impacts our life
Well-equipped laboratories are available for conducting physical and chemical experiments to estimate the substances in qualitatively and quantitatively. There is also a separate research laboratory approved by VTU and Mangalore University.
Department of Chemistry focuses its research collaborations and activities havingpractical implications in developing alternative solutions towards environmental problems and development of society.
The Department offers courses for first year BE and various branches of Engineering. Department also offers Ph.D. degree in various specializations of Chemistry. The Department is equipped with state-of-the-art infrastructure which includes a VTU research centre, affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi.
/academics/common-departments/chemistry
FDP on Computational Mathematics for Engineers, Industry and Beyond
Conference Brochure: Essentials of Mathematics in Data Science, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
“Conference Invite: Essentials of Mathematics in Data Science, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning”
"Conference Brochure: Computational Methods in Applied Science and Engineering
“Conference Invite: Computational Methods in Applied Science and Engineering”
Department of Mathematics has signed MOU with Karnataka Science and Technology Academy(KSTA), Govt of Karnataka.
Department patent list
DR. GEETHA N. K.
DR. RADHA GUPTA
DR. K. T. SHIVARAM
DR. SANJAY OLI
DR. D R SASI REKHA
DR. SOWMYA K.
DR. ROSE BINDU JOSEPH P
DR. AMRUTHALAKSHMI S R
C S KOMALA
V. SELVA SHARMILA
SAVITHRI H
ROHINI SATHISH
VASUDHA S N
To create lifelong competent and socially innovative Engineers capable of working in multicultural environment in the world.
To Enhance Mathematical knowledge which will enable them to analyze, interpret and optimize any engineering related problem.
To imbibe interest in the convergence of Science and Technology through continuous Research activities.
To provide a platform to develop extraordinary professionals with high ethical values to meet the future age world.
The department of Mathematics at DSCE was established in the year 1979 with a vision of “creating lifelong competent and socially innovative Engineers, capable of working in multi-cultural environment in the world”.
Mathematics, the study of quantity, structure, space, and change, is used as an essential tool in natural sciences, engineering, medicine, and the social sciences. The subject, that seeks to establish the truth by arduous deduction, being the core foundation of the Field of Engineering, aids to build Analytical, Reasoning & Logical skills of the future Engineers and Researchers. Continuous Learning and Research activities satisfy the curiosity of students & it fulfils the objective of our department.
The Department has an excellent research reputation, a strong demanding program, and a full range of excellent course offerings. The department offers courses for first & second year BE that also includes Labs, Institutional electives during higher semesters, and courses for first-year M. Tech in various branches of Engineering. The Department has R&D centre, established in 2013, affiliated to Visvesvaraya Technological University, Belagavi, through which it offers Ph.D. programs in various specializations of Mathematics. The department has faculty with research interests in virtually every area of mathematics and they regularly publish quality research papers in peer-reviewed National and International Journals. The department has a strong Industry connection through which the curriculum is designed and implemented. It recently completed a research project from ISRO and few DST projects are under review process. The department has been sanctioned with two ATAL-FDP’s. To protect the research ideas, department has filed national and international patents of which five are published and granted.
The department has a Student & Faculty club in Mathematics which provides a unique platform for various disciplines. One of the best practices of the department is to release a newsletter bi-yearly to showcase the activities and growth of the department.
Dr. Geetha N K
Professor & HOD, Department of Mathematics
: +91-80-42161730
The AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy sponsored One week Faculty Development Program on “COMPUTATIONAL MATHEMATICS FOR ENGINEERS, INDUSTRY AND BEYOND” which is being held from 5 th to 10 th Feb 2024 in which around 42 participants from different parts of India participated.
Workshop on Applications of Biostatistics
Department of Mathematics conducted One Day Workshop entitled “Applications of Biostatistics” on 26 th February, 2020. Speaker provided hands-on training on the various tests to be adopted for qualitative and quantitative biological data and explained when and where to apply the exact statistical techniques namely correlation, regression, chi square, t- test and ANOVA.
Workshop on Quality Research Publications and Patenting
Department of Mathematics, DSCE conducted One day workshop on Quality Research Publications and Patenting on 24th January 2020. This workshop mainly focused on how to bring the quality publications.
Workshop on “Artificial Intelligence and Data Analytics: The Future
Two-day workshop on “Artificial Intelligence and Data Analytics: the future” was conducted on 25th & 26th November 2019. The workshop focused on how the data analytics and artificial intelligence technologies are transforming the organizations, industries and society in general & it’s impact in future.
NUMBER NINJA COMPETITION 2019
Department of Mathematics conducted “NUMBER NINJA COMPETITION 2019” on 4th November 2019. Under this competition, an event was conducted called Number Game which was a team event. In ‘Number Ninja’, ‘Number’ means mathematical puzzles and ‘Ninja’ means who could solve problems quickly.
wxMaxima for Second semester
Emerging trends in Application of Mathematics
The Department of Mathematics has organised FDP sponsored by AICTE-ATAL titled “Emerging trends in Application of Mathematics” from 6 th to 10 th December 2021.
Computational Mathematics and AI for Engineers
The Department of Mathematics has organised FDP sponsored by AICTE-ATAL titled “Computational Mathematics and AI for Engineers” from 13 th to 17 th December 2021.
Engineering Mathematics
Applied Mathematics
Doctoral Program in Mathematics
MATHEMATICS DEPARTMENT
Department of Mathematics Conducted talk on ‘Machine Learning-Math behind the magic’ by Sri. Shankar Raman Sharma, Research Fellow, Indian Institute of Science.
Department has well maintained research center where in research scholar can utilize the facilities computational assignments and projects.
Department has seven doctorate holders and remaining faculty members are registered for doctorate program in different domain.
Department of Mathematics conducted One Day Workshop entitled “Applications of Biostatistics” on 26 th February, 2020.
Dr. N V Vighnesam is instrumental in getting the project titled “Precise Orbit and Clock Estimation using NavlC Ground Reciever Data” of budget ₹32,28,000 from ISRO, the very first project to the Mathematics Department. ISRO has also Installed IRNSS receiver in DSCE Campus through this project.
Department of Mathematics encourages the faculty members to present and publish the papers in national and international journals. Around hundred papers are published in good, peer reviewed journals.
/academics/common-departments/mathematics
Anusuya K P
Assistant Professor (CIPE)
Qualification
BAL., LLB., LLM
Sugurappa Mallappa
B.A., LL.B., M.A., LL.M
Assistant Professor (Kannada)
MA, M Phil.
Dr Kalpana S Singh
Assistant Professor (English)
MA, BEd, PhD
MA, M. Phil
Dr. Jayanth M
M.A, B.Ed, UGC-NET, Ph.D
E-Resources
LEARNING MATERIAL
/academics/common-departments/humanities
Admissions | CET | Comed-K | DSCE admissions
BT Alumni side
Admission Details
The admission process at DSCE is through CET and COMEDK. The minimum requirement for Bachelor’s Degree (B.E) is pass in PUC / CBSE / ISCE /10+2 or equivalent examination with Physics and Mathematics as compulsory subjects and a minimum of 45% marks aggregate in Physics, Mathematics and any one of the following subjects: Chemistry / Biology / Biotechnology / Computer Science / Electronics and English as a compulsory subject.
Admission Procedure
The admission process at DSCE is conducted through common tests that are conducted by state agencies and national agencies like CET and COMMED-K. It commences in the month of March every year and concludes on 31st July of the same year. The lateral entry (Diploma Quota) through CET is for 3rd semester and commences in the month of July/August.
B.E Programs
For UG, The admission to college is through the entrance test / Common Entrance Test (CET) conducted by Karnataka Government & Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka / COMEDK. The students with meritorious ranking are considered for admissions.
A pass in PUC/12th/10+2 or equivalent examination in the first attempt with Physics & Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with English as one of the subject/language.
A pass in PUC/12th/10+2 or equivalent examination with 45 % marks aggregate in Physics, Mathematics & any one of the following subjects: Chemistry / Biology / Computer science / Electronics.
Candidates belongs to Karnataka SC, ST & other backward classes (Cat-1, 2A, 2B, 3A & 3B) the minimum marks for the eligibility will be 40% aggregate in the optional subjects.
M.Tech Programs
A pass in B E/ B.Tech or equivalent examination.
A written test is conducted by the university for candidates and rank list is obtained. On the basis of which, the candidate will appear for admission carried out through single window counseling process.
Candidates with valid GATE score will be given first preference for the seat selection in the counseling process, then university rank holders.
MBA Program
For admission to Master of Business Administration (MBA) Program, the candidates shall have passed the prescribed qualifying examinations with not less than 50% of the marks in aggregate of all the years / semesters of the degree examinations. PGCET Score is must for Government Quota Students.
However, in the case of candidates belonging to SC/ST and any other groups classified by the Government of Karnataka for such purpose from time to time, the aggregate percentage of marks in the qualifying examinations shall be not less than 45%.
M.Sc. Engineering/Ph.D
For Ph.D. The criteria for admission are through synopsis selection, ULRAT Test and an interview conducted by VTU for affiliated research centers.
Master's Degree of any recognized University or any other equivalent qualification.
All eligible applicants will be called for a written entrance test which has to be cleared to attend an interview. The admissions will be based on performance in the interview.
For M.Sc. Engg. Bachelor’s degree in the respective field is required, rest of the procedure is same as that foe Ph.D.
Master of Computer Application(MCA)
Admission to Master of Computer Application(MCA)Program, the candidates shall have passed the prescribed qualifying examinations with not less than 50% of the marks in aggregate of all the years / semesters of the degree examinations. PGCET Score is must for Government Quota Students. The revised MCA course is for Two years or Four Semesters. This will be functional from the current academic year.
Admission through Management Quota
ENGINEERING:
Candidates should have passed with a minimum aggregate of 50% marks in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics (PCM) and should have passed these subjects individually. Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry are compulsory subjects.
The candidates shall have passed the prescribed qualifying examinations with not less than 50% of the marks in aggregate of all the years / semesters of the degree examinations. The students who have either taken PGCET, MAT, CAT or KMAT are eligible based on merit into the program.
/admissions
/admissions/course-eligibility
2025-26
2024-25
2023-24
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
1st YEAR MBA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
1st YEAR M.Tech PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
1st YEAR MCA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
ENGINEERING (Regular) J & K PMSSS QUOTA ADMISSION PROCESS FOR 2025-26
ENGINEERING (Regular) COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
ENGINEERING (Lateral) DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
ENGINEERING (Regular) MANAGEMENT NRI QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
ENGINEERING (Regular) MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2025-26
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2025-26
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2025-26
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2025-26
1st YEAR MBA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
1st YEAR M.Tech PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
1st YEAR MCA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
ENGINEERING (Regular) J & K PMSSS QUOTA ADMISSION PROCESS FOR 2024-25
ENGINEERING (Lateral) DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
ENGINEERING (Regular) COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
ENGINEERING (Regular) MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2024-25
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2024-25
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2024-25
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2024-25
1st YEAR MBA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
1st YEAR M.Tech PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
1st YEAR MCA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
ENGINEERING KEA / DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
1st YEAR ENGINEERING COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
1st YEAR BE VACANCY DETAILS FOR THE YEAR 2023-24
ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2023-24
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2023-24
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2023-24
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2023-24
1st YEAR MBA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
1st YEAR M.Tech PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
1st YEAR MCA PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
ENGINEERING KEA / DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
1st YEAR ENGINEERING COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2022-23
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2022-23
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2022-23
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2022-23
2nd YEAR ENGINEERING(Lateral Entry) KEA / DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
1st YEAR ENGINEERING COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
1st YEAR MBA KEA / PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
1st YEAR M.Tech KEA / PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
1st YEAR MCA KEA / PGCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2021-22
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2021-22
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2021-22
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2021-22
2nd YEAR ENGINEERING(Lateral Entry) KEA / DCET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2020-21
1st YEAR ENGINEERING KEA / CET QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2020-21
1st YEAR ENGINEERING COMED-K QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2020-21
ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT QUOTA - ADMISSION PROCESS & FEES DETAILS 2020-21
M.Tech - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2020-21
MBA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2020-21
MCA - MANAGEMENT QUOTA ADMISSION 2020-21
/admissions/fee-structure
Step 1
Select the Institution
Step 2
Accept & Proceed
Step 3
Select Institution & Enter USN
Step 4
Make Payment
Dayananda Sagar College of
Engineering
Master of Technology (M. Tech)
Master of Business Administration (MBA)
Master of Computer Applications (MCA)
/admissions/pay-fee-online
The Controller of Examinations (COE) is assisted by the Deputy Controller of Examination and other staff for conducting the examinations and publishing the results in time. The Examination Section is mainly responsible for the Conduct of various examinations, valuation of answer scripts and publication of results and Certificates.
The office of the COE is sensitized to the demands of the students, and holds their welfare in top priority. In the interest of the smooth running of all the processes of the COE office, which are vital to the proper functioning of the institute, a manual “Academic Rules and Regulations” has been compiled in which all the rules, regulations and procedures have been exhaustively laid out. This manual will serve as a useful ready- reckoner and help to clear doubts that may arise.
The Examination Section is aware of the need for reforms in traditional examination and assessment system and is continuously striving towards evolving a credible, valid, effective and transparent evaluation system that addresses the challenges and newer demands of the outside world.
We are continuously evolving by adopting technology to facilitate easy interface for exchange of information to all stakeholders.
Examination process is automated and comprises of setting Question Paper, Digital depository of answer scripts and Digital Evaluation in order to minimize time and make the entire process error free and efficient.
Regularly Orientation sessions are conducted to the faculty members on examination rules and regulations.
The rules and regulations governing the academic and assessment evaluation process will be disseminated to the students during induction program every year.
Strengthening the system to ensure that students have greater accessibility to processes that allow timely resolution of their problems.
To ensure the validity and stability of the examination system and work with the affiliating university.
Devise and monitor strategies and implementation of useful examination practices at the institute and continuously strive to bring about reforms as and when required in the examination system.
MBA- 3rd SEMESTER SEE TENTATIVE TIME TABLE -Feb -2026
UG -First year course exam fee - 2025-2026
UG- 1st Semester (2025 Scheme) B.E SEE Time Table-Jan/Feb -2026
UG- 1st Semester (2025 Scheme) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table-Jan/Feb -2026
PG-Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Jan- 2026
UG-Extension -2024 batch (1st Sem) Backlog Course SEE-Registration-JAN- 2026
UG-Course Registration - Backlog Students (2021 to 2023 Batch NE grade)-Jan-2026
UG -course registration upto 2020 batch- (Even Semester) - Jan -2026
UG -2024 batch (1st Semester) Backlog Course SEE-Registration-JAN- 2026
UG - Exam fee for II Year (2024 Batch) Lateral Entry students - 2025-2026
UG-Revised 4th to 7th sem (2021 Batch) regular and backlog SEE time table -Dec/Jan-2026
PG- 3rd Semester M.Tech SEE Time Table -Jan -2026
PG- 3rd Semester MCA SEE Time Table -Jan -2026
UG- 1st & 2nd Sem (2022 Scheme - 2022, 2023, & 2024 Batch) Backlog B.E SEE Tentative Exam Time Table -Jan/Feb -2026
UG- 1st & 3rd sem (2021 Batch) backlog SEE time table -Jan/Feb-2026
UG- 1st and 3rd Sem Backlog and parallel (upto 2020 batch) SEE Exam time table-Jan-2026
UG- 3rd Sem B.E SEE (Regular & Backlog) Tentative Time Table -Jan/Feb-2026
UG-Revised 5th and 7th Sem Backlog and parallel batch SEE Exam time table-Dec-2025
UG-updated 1st, 3rd, 5th & 7th Sem B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Time table- Dec-2025
UG-1st, 3rd, 5th & 7th Semester B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch (Upto 2020 Batch) SEE Time table- Dec-2025
UG- 4th Sem B.E SEE Backlog (2022 & 2023 Batch) Time Table Dec-2025/Jan 2026
UG- 5th Sem B.E SEE Backlog (2022 Batch) Time Table Dec-2025/Jan 2026
UG- 6th Sem B.E SEE Backlog (2022 Batch) Time Table Dec-2025/Jan 2026
UG- 1st to 7th Sem (2021 Batch) Regular & Backlog SEE Time Table Dec- 2025/Jan 2026
UG -Exam fee - II, III & IV Year - 2025-2026
UG -Extension for 2021 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Nov 2025
UG-Extension for 2022 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Nov 2025
UG -2023 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Nov 2025
PG -SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER 2019 & 2021 batch- NOV -2025
Alert regarding Fake Circulation of Exam Time-table
UG- 5th Semester B.E SEE Tentative Time Table- Nov/Dec -2025
UG- 7th Semester B.E SEE Tentative Time Table- Nov/Dec -2025
UG -2021 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Nov -2025
UG -2022 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Nov -2025
Extension - UG-Revaluation - Supplementary Semester -Nov- 2025
UG-Revaluation - Supplementary Semester -Nov- 2025
PG-Odd Sem Backlog Course Registration (NE/DX) - Nov -2025
PG -Makeup Exam-2nd & 4th Semester -Oct/Nov -2025
PG-2nd Semester Revaluation (Regular) & Backlog (2023 & 2024 Batch) - Oct- 2025
Updated B.E upto 2020 batch Supplementary Semester Examination Tentative Time Table Oct 2025
MCA-4th Semester Revaluation (Regular) & Backlog (2023 Batch) - Sept- 2025
UG -2021 batch ODD Semester Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Sept -2025
UG -RANK LIST and Distinction Awards- 2025
UG- upto 2020 batch Supplementary Semester Examination Time Table -Sept/Oct -2025
UG- 1st & 2nd (2022 Scheme) B.E Supplementary Semester Time Table-Sept/Oct-2025
UG- 3rd, 4th, 5th & 6th (2022 Scheme) B.E Supplementary semester Tentative Time Table-Oct/Nov- 2025
UG- (2021 Scheme) B.E Supplementary semester Exam Time Table -Oct-2025
UG- 2023 batch (1st & 2nd Sem) Supplementary Semester Exam -Registration-Sept -2025
UG-Revised 2022 batch (1st & 2nd sem) Supplementary Exam-Registration-Sept- 2025
Extension - UG- 2024 batch Supplementary Exam-Registration-Sept- 2025
UG- 2022 batch (5th & 6th sem) Supplementary Exam-Registration-Sept -2025
UG -2023 batch (3rd & 4th sem) Supplementary Exam-Registration-Sept- 2025
UG -1st & 2nd Supplementary Semester Exam Registration (F Grade) – 2024 Batch
UG-2nd, 4th & 6th Sem B.E Makeup Exam Time Table- Sept- 2025
UG-Updated -Makeup Exam-2nd, 4th & 6th Semester -Sept -2025
Revaluation -UG Backlog Semester End Examination upto 2020 batch- Sept- 2025
UG: Revaluation for 2nd, 4th & 6th Semester (Regular) & Backlog (2021, 2022, 2023 & 2024 Batch) - August 2025
PG -(MBA/MCA/M.TECH) BACKLOG SEMESTER END EXAMINATION TIME TABLE – Aug/Sept -2025
MCA-4th - Semester End Examination Time Table -Sept -2025
M.TECH - 2nd SEMESTER SEE TIME TABLE -Aug/Sept -2025
MCA -2nd SEMESTER SEE TIME TABLE -Aug/Sept -2025
MBA- 2nd Semester End Examination Time Table Aug- 2025
PG-Backlog Course SEE-Registration-August- 2025
UG -Makeup Exam-8th Sem (2021 batch) -August -2025
UG -upto 2020 batch ODD Sem Backlog Course SEE-Registration-July -2025
UG -2022 & 2023 batch ODD Sem Backlog Course SEE-Registration-July -2025
PG 1st SEMESTER MAKE UP EXAMINATION TIME TABLE JULY 2025
UG -SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER 2024 BATCH- JULY- 2025
PG -Makeup Exam-1st Sem (2024 batch) & 3rd Sem (2023 batch)-July -2025
EXTENSION FOR UG SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER UPTO 2020 batch- July 2025
EXTENSION FOR UG SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER 2021 batch- July 2025
EXTENSION FOR UG SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER 2022 batch- July 2025
UG -Supplementary Semester upto- 2020 Batch- July- 2025
UG -2021 Batch supplementary semester (1st to 8th )- July -2025
UG -2022 Batch supplementary semester (1st to 6th )- July- 2025
PG -1st & 3rd sem (Regular 2024 & 2023 batch) & Backlog I/II/III/IV Sem (2022 Scheme) Revaluation - July -2025
UG-2nd, 4th, 6th & 8th Semester B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Examination -June/July- 2025
UG- 1st to 7th Backlog Semester (2021 batch) B.E SEE Time Table - Jun/Jul-2025
UG- 1st & 2nd Sem (2022 Scheme) Regular & Backlog B.E SEE Examination Time Table July/Aug -2025
UG -2024 batch (1st semester) Backlog Course SEE-Registration-June- 2025
UG- 1st & 2nd Sem (2022 Scheme) Regular & Backlog B.E SEE Examination Tentative Time Table July/Aug -2025
UG- 6th Semester B.E SEE Time Table- June/July -2025
UG-5th Sem (Backlog) B.E SEE Time Table -June/July -2025
UG-4th Semester (Regular & Backlog) B.E SEE Time Table -June/July -2025
UG-3rd Semester (Backlog) B.E SEE Time Table -June/July -2025
Provisional degree certificate (PDC)-June-2025
Alert regarding Fake Circulation of Exam Time-table-Reg
UG-2nd, 4th, 6th & 8th Semester B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Examination -June/July 2025
UG- 1st to 7th Backlog Semester (2021 batch) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table - Jun/Jul-2025
Extension for UG 2021, 2022 & 2023 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-May 2025
UG- 6th Semester B.E SEE Tentative Time Table- June/July -2025
UG-5th Sem (Backlog) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table -June/July -2025
UG-3rd Semester (Backlog) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table -June/July -2025
Revised UG- 2021 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-May- 2025
UG -2023 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-May -2025
UG -2022 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-May- 2025
UG -1st, 3rd & 5th Semester Makeup Exam- May- 2025
UG -8th sem-SEE May/June-2025 ( Internship/Project Viva-Voce)
UG -Makeup Examination - 1st, 3rd & 5th Sem (2022, 2023 & 2024 batch) - May -2025
VTU Convocation fee & Online registration form - UG and PG-2025-Reg
PG (MBA/MCA/M.TECH) BACKLOG SEMESTER END EXAMINATION TIME TABLE – April/May 2025
UG-Revaluation - 5th Semester (Regular)-May- 2025
UG -7th Semester Makeup EXAMINATION May- 2025
UG -Makeup Examination - 7th Sem (2021 batch) - May -2025
UG-Revaluation - 1st & 3rd (Regular) & Backlog (I & II Sem -2023 Batch) & (I to IV Sem -2022 Batch) -April- 2025
UG-Revaluation- I, III, V & VII Sem Backlog Upto 2020 Batch & Parallel Batch (V & VII Sem) - April 2025
M.Tech-3rd Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL/MAY- 2025
MBA-3rd Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL/MAY 2025
MCA-3rd Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL/MAY- 2025
M.Tech-1st Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL - 2025
MBA-1st Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL - 2025
MCA-1st Semester End Examination Time Table APRIL - 2025
PG -Backlog Course SEE-Registration (2022 & 2023 Batch) -Mar/Apr-2025
UG-Revaluation - 7th (Regular) & Backlog (I to VI) Semester (2021 Batch) -March- 2025
UG (Upto 2020 Batch)-1st, 3rd & 5th Sem B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Exam time table- Feb/March- 2025
UG-Course Registration for Backlog Students (NE/DX)-Feb/Mar- 2025
UG -Course Registration upto 2020 batch -Feb -2025
UG -(2024 batch) course exam fee for I Year - 2024-2025
Revised -UG (Upto 2020 Batch)-1st, 3rd & 5th Sem B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Exam- Feb/March- 2025
Revised -UG - 1st & 2nd Sem (2022 Scheme) Regular & Backlog B.E SEE Exam Time Table Feb/Mar -2025
PG- SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER EXAMINATION TIME TABLE - Feb -2025
UG (Upto 2020 Batch)-1st, 3rd & 5th Sem B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Exam- Feb/March- 2025
Revised -B.E 1st to 6th Semester (2021 Scheme) SEE Tentative Time Table -Jan/Feb- 2025
UG 2023 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Jan 2025
UG- 3rd & 4th Semester (2022 Scheme) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table - Jan/Feb-2025
PG-Course Registration (I/III sem) for Backlog Students-Jan-2025
UG-1st to 6th Sem (2021 Scheme) Backlog B.E SEE Tentative Time Table - Jan/Feb-2025
UG -course exam fee - II Year Lateral Entry students - 2024-2025
UG 2022 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Dec 2024
UG-5th- Semester B.E SEE Tentative Time Table-Jan -2025
UG-3rd- Semester B.E SEE -Tentative Time Table -Jan/Feb-2025
Extension - UG 2021 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration-Dec- 2024
UG-7th Semester B.E Backlog & Parallel Batch SEE Examination- Dec- 2024
UG-7th semester B.E SEE Tentative Time Table Dec- 2024/Jan -2025
UG -2021 batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration - Dec- 2024
Revaluation for PG 2nd Semester (Regular 2023 batch) & Backlog I/II/III Semester (2022 Scheme)
UG-Revaluation - 2021 batch (1st to 6th sem) & UG 2022 batch (1st to 4th sem) supplementary semester -Dec- 2024
UG- Course Exam fee for II, III & IV Year - 2024-2025
PG- SUPPLEMENTARY SEMESTER REGISTRATION - NOV -2024
Updated UG-1st to 4th (2022 Batch) Supplementary Sem (NE/DX), 3rd & 4th Sem Supplementary Exam (F Grade), 4th Sem Makeup Exam (2022 Batch) B.E SEE Time Table- Nov -2024
Extension for UG Supplementary Exam Registration 2022 batch (F grade) 3rd & 4th Semester registration Nov 2024
Revaluation- UG -Supplementary Semester upto 2020 batch -Nov -2024
UG-1st to 4th (2022 Batch) Supplementary Sem (NE/DX), 3rd & 4th Sem Supplementary Exam (F Grade), 4th Sem Makeup Exam (2022 Batch) B.E SEE Time Table- Nov -2024
UG-1st to 6th (2021 Batch) Supplementary semester & 6th Sem Makeup Exam (2021 Batch) B.E SEE Tentative Time Table-Nov- 2024
UG -Backlog Course SEE Registration -2022 batch
UG -Makeup Examination - 4th Sem (2022 batch) & 6th Sem (2021 batch) - Nov -2024
PG -Backlog SEE Tentative Time Table -Nov-2024
Rescheduling - 2nd Semester (2023 Batch) B.E Makeup lab Exam & 1st & 2nd Sem (2023 Batch) Supplementary lab Exam-Oct-2024
MBA 2nd Semester End Examination Time Table Oct/Nov- 2024
MCA 2nd Semester End Examination Time Table Oct/Nov- 2024
M.Tech 2nd Semester End Examination Time Table -Oct -2024
PG -2022 & 2023 Batch Backlog Course SEE-Registration
Revaluation- UG- 4th Sem (Regular) & Backlog (I to III Sem) -2022 Batch- Oct- 2024
Revaluation for UG Backlog course upto 2020 batch -Oct -2024
Revised 2nd Sem (2023 Batch) B.E Makeup & 1st & 2nd Sem (2023 Batch) Supplementary Exam Time Table- Oct-2024
UG 1st Semester & 2nd Semester Supplementary Examination- (“F” grade) 2023 Batch
Staff Details
UG-5th & 7th Semester End Examination Results - Feb-2026
UG-Supplementary semester Examination (upto 2020 batch) Revaluation Results - Nov-2025
UG-Supplementary semester Examination (2021 to 2024 batch) Revaluation Results - Nov-2025
UG-Supplementary semester Examination (upto 2020 batch) Results - Nov-2025
UG-Supplementary semester Examination (2021 to 2024 batch) Results - Nov-2025
PG- 2nd Sem Revaluation Result- Regular & Backlog - Oct- 2025
PG-4th Semester SEE Examination Results - Oct-2025
PG-Backlog Semester SEE Examination Results - Oct-2025
PG-2nd Semester SEE Examination Results - Oct-2025
MCA- Backlog SEE result (2023 batch)- Sept- 2025
MCA-4th Semester SEE Examination Results - Sept-2025
UG- 2nd, 4th & 6th Semester B.E Makeup Exam Result Sept- 2025
UG-upto 2020 batch backlog SEE Revaluation Results - Sept-2025
UG- Revaluation Result - 2nd, 4th & 6th Sem (Regular) & Backlog (2021, 2022, 2023 & 2024 Batch) - Sept -2025
UG-upto 2020 batch backlog SEE Examination Results - Aug-2025
UG- Backlog SEE result (2021, 2022, 2023 & 2024 Batch)- Aug- 2025
UG-2nd Semester End Examination Results - Aug-2025
UG-4th & 6th Semester End Examination Results - August-2025
PG-1st & 3rd Semester SEE Revaluation Results - July-2025
PG-Backlog 1st to 4th Semester SEE Examination Results - July-2025
PG-1st & 3rd Semester SEE Examination Results - June-2025
UG-8th Semester End Examination Results - June-2025
UG-2022 batch (5th sem), 2023 batch (3rd sem), 2024 batch (1st Sem) Makeup-Exam Results -June- 2025
UG-2021 batch (7th sem) makeup Examination Result -June- 2025
UG- 3rd & 5th Sem Revaluation Result- 2022 & 2023 Regular & Backlog Batch- May- 2025
UG- 7th Sem Revaluation Result- 2021 batch Regular & Backlog- May- 2025
UG- 1st Sem (2024 batch) Revaluation result May -2025
UG-5th Semester End Examination Results - May-2025
UG- 1st to 4th Sem (2022 & 2023 batch) Backlog SEE results- April -2025
UG-1st Semester End Examination Results - April-2025
UG- 1st to 7th Sem (upto 2020 batch) Backlog SEE result April -2025
UG- 1st to 6th Sem (2021 batch) Backlog SEE result March -2025
UG-3rd Semester End Examination Results - March-2025
UG-7th Semester End Examination Results - March-2025
PG- 2nd Semester- Backlog SEE Revaluation results Dec -2024
UG- Supplementary Sem Revaluation Result- 2021 batch (1st to 6th sem) & 2022 batch (1st to 4th sem)- Dec- 2024
M.Tech-2nd Semester End Examination Results - Dec-2024
MBA-2nd Semester End Examination Results - Dec-2024
MCA-2nd Semester End Examination Results - Dec-2024
PG-Backlog Examination Results - Dec-2024
UG-2022 batch (3rd & 4th Sem) supplementary examination result- Dec- 2024
UG- 2021 (1st to 6th sem) & 2022 (1st to 4th sem) batch supplementary semester result -Dec -2024
UG-2021 batch (6th sem) & 2022 batch (4th Sem) makeup examination result -Dec- 2024
UG-Supplementary semester Revaluation Results (upto 2020 batch)- Nov-2024
UG- 4th & 6th Sem (2022 & 2021 batch) Regular SEE Revaluation result Nov -2024
UG- 2021 & 2022 batch Backlog SEE Revaluation results Nov -2024
UG -1st & 2nd Semester (2023 Batch) Supplementary Exam results - Nov -2024
UG-2nd Semester Makeup Examination Results - Oct-2024
UG-Supplementary semester Exam Results (upto 2020 batch)- OCT-2024
MCA-4th Semester End Examination Results - Oct-2024
M.Tech-4th Semester End Examination Results - Oct-2024
MBA-4th Semester End Examination Results - Oct-2024
UG- 1st to 3rd Semester (2022 Batch) Backlog result-OCT- 2024
UG-4th Semester End Examination Results - OCT-2024
UG- Backlog course result upto 2020 batch - Oct -2024
UG- 1st & 2nd Sem (2023 batch) Regular & Backlog SEE Revaluation result Sept -2024
UG- 1st to 5th Semester (2021 Batch) Backlog result-Sept- 2024
UG-6th Semester End Examination Results - Sept-2024
UG-1st Semester (2023 batch) Backlog B.E SEE Results- Sept- 2024
UG-2nd Semester End Examination Results - Sept-2024
EXAMINATION HALL ALLOTMENT
UG 1st Semester SEE Room Allotment - Feb 2026
UG 3rd Semester SEE Room Allotment - Jan/Feb 2026
UG-Student Hand Book 2025
UG-Student Hand Book 2024
Student Registration List UG 2023-24
First Year Student Registration List UG 2023-24
Second Year Student Registration List UG 2023-24
Third Year Student Registration List UG 2023-24
Fourth Year Student Registration List UG 2023-24
Student Registration List PG 2023-24
Academic Rules & Regulations 2022-23
#14, Office of Controller of Examinations,
New Architecture Building,
Kumaraswamy layout,
Bangalore- 560 111, Karnataka, India.
Contact No:
080 - 42161770
/exam-section
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has an elite placement division to facilitate the placements for all students. The Centre provides pre-placement training in soft skills to all students to enable them to apprise to the modern corporate requirements in association with
CIL - Centre for Innovation & Leadership
HR Division.
The Placement Division also supports training in
CV Writing, Aptitude Assessment, Mock interviews, Group Discussion
Internship opportunities in various companies will be provided for interested UG/PG students.
DSCE is committed to provide best talent for corporates.
The Placement division works with Corporates to build the overall Development of Students as per industry requirements.
Number of Students placed in the Year
Message from Vice President - Placements
Mr. M N Guruvenkatesh
The Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has state of the art infrastructure for all departments. The excellent infrastructure of the University facilitates different activities of placement like pre-placement talks, Presentations, Online / written tests, Group discussions/ JMT, and interviews as per the requirements of the Companies. The centralized Placement cell have consistent placement records for the students from UG and PG programs that illustrates the commitment to the success of the Dayananda Sagar Group of Institutions.
I cordially invite all students to join our esteemed Institution for good placements and bright future. Also I cordially invite all prospective employers of our students to visit Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering and to participate in the on-campus placement process.
Vice President - Placements & Skill Development Centre
Ph: +91 - 9844165956
Tel: +91 80 26663981 / 42161497
Availability of Talents for Recruitment / Internships
BE / MTech – (CSE / ISE / ECE / EEE / Medical Electronics / Telecom / Instrumentation / Mechanical / IE & M / CIVIL / Construction Technology & Management / Chemical Engineering / Bio - Technology/ Architecture/ Automobile Engg/ Aeronautical Engg).
MCA, BCA, BSc (CS), BCom, BBM, MCom, D.Pharma, B.Pharma, M.Pharma, BSc & MSc (Nursing), BSc & MSc (Bio-Technology).
Diploma – (CSE / ISE / Mech / ECE / EEE / Civil)
The Placement Cell coordinates with recruiting companies and handles the entire end to end placement process.
The Training and Placement Cell is provided with a well-equipped Auditorium/ Seminar Hall for pre-placement talk, well-furnished rooms for training, interviews and counseling.
Few recruitment Partners
/placements
The Training and Placement Cell is provided with a well-equipped Auditorium/ Seminar Hall for pre-placement talk, well-furnished rooms for training, interviews and counseling. The Placement Cell coordinates with recruiting companies and handles the entire end to end placement process.
Placement Training activities
The Training and Placement Cell is also committed to enhance the employability skills of the students by organizing following training programs.
Organizing Aptitude training programs to enhance quantitative, verbal, logical & reasoning skills
Organizing soft-skills training to improve the student’s personality, Confidence level, Public Speaking skills, Conducting Mock Interviews, Group discussions.
Organizing subject/domain specific Technical Skills Training by Experts. Career counseling for pursuing higher studies.
Organizing entrepreneurship development programs to motivate the Students to become Entrepreneurs.
Training modules delivered
Goal-setting
Personality traits
Staying Positive
Self-motivation
Self-awareness
Learning skills
Effective communication skills
Time management
Interpersonal skills
Personal grooming
Emotional quotient
Body language
Human Relation
Creativity
Customer Relations Management
Team building
Problem solving and decision-making
Leadership skills
Public Speaking
Presentation skills
Negotiating skills
Self- management Cross-culture –communication and Corporate Culture
Interview / GD skills
Finance for Non - Finance
Sales training
Business etiquette
Managing stress
/placements/placements-training
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has been working with many Companies for more than three decades for Students Internships and Placements. More than 100+ Companies have been visiting us every year for Campus Placements. We have signed
with more than 30+ Companies for helping students with projects Internships Industrial visits / Research / Placements. We have been achieving record placements over the years.
No. of Students Recruited
Infosys Limited
Capgemini Technology Services India Limited
76
LTIMindtree Limited
50
ACMEGRADE PRIVATE LIMITED
41
Cognizant Technology Solutions India Private Limited
28
Commonwealth Bank of Australia
27
KPMG Global Services Private Limited
Edgeverve Systems Limited
19
Oracle Corporation
16
Salarpuria Sattva Group
15
Maximus, Inc
14
KPMG India
13
Johnson controls
Quest Global Engineering Services Private Limited
THE MATH COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED
AXA Global
17
International Business Machines Corporation(IBM )
18
JLL Technologies
Consilio India Private Limited
20
STUDIO AMAAVI LLP
21
Texas Instruments Incorporated
22
Siemens Healthineer
23
24
Eurofins IT solutions
25
Greenway Health, LLC
26
Nasdaq, Inc
NAVIKENZ INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
Piramal Finance Limited
29
Thomson Reuters Corporation
30
Desmet Ballestra Group
31
Dover India Private Limited
32
New Relic, Inc.
33
SAN Engineering and Locomotive Company Limited
34
Titan Company Limited
35
CDM Smith Inc.
36
Clarivate Plc
37
Emplay Analytics Private Limited
38
HASHEDIN TECHNOLOGIES PRIVATE LIMITED
39
Havells India Limited
40
INVN-TREE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED
Pegasystems Inc.
42
Rubrik, Inc.,
43
SanDisk Corporation
44
SIXT Research & Development India Pvt. Ltd
45
StoneX Group Inc.,
46
A.P.Moller - Maersk
47
Booking Holdings Inc.
48
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc.
49
Cloudsek Information Security Private Limited
COREEL TECHNOLOGIES (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED
51
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP
52
DENSO KIRLOSKAR INDUSTRIES PRIVATE LIMITED
53
Harman International Industries, Incorporated
54
Kantar Group Limited
55
Koch Industries, Inc
56
Lee Spring India Pvt. Ltd
57
PHINIA DELPHI INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
58
Quantiphi Analytics Solutions Private Limited
59
Schneider Electric India Pvt. Ltd
60
SISA Information Security Private Limited
61
Think41 Technologies Private Limited
62
Whatfix Private Limited
63
ZAPCOM SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
64
AQUERALABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
65
Arys Garage Private Limited
66
Bharti Airtel Limited
67
Champions Group Holdings
68
Cognite Technologies India Private Limited
69
Fractal Analytics Limited
70
Hyperverge Technologies Private Limited.
71
IMEG Corp's
72
Keyence Corporation
73
Leadsquared
74
Lumen Technologies
75
Microsoft Corporation
Pelatro Limited
77
Publicis Sapient
78
SAP Labs India Private Limited
79
SIPAL TECHNOLOGIES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
80
Stellantis
81
SuperAGI Inc.
82
Talview Inc
83
Triveni Turbine Limited
84
85
Vodafone Intelligent Solutions(VOIS)
86
ADTRAN Holdings, Inc.
87
Appsforbharat Private Limited
Automation Anywhere, Inc.
89
AvioHeliTronics InfoSystems Private Limited
90
BAKER TILLY
91
CSG Systems International
92
DIGIOTECH SOLUTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
93
FAB REALTY PRIVATE LIMITED
94
FWC IT SERVICES PRIVATE LIMITED
95
HakWithInfy
96
Hokuto Corporation
97
Hewlett Packard Enterprise(HPE)
98
Infrrd Inc.
99
Intelligent Science co
100
JSW Steel Limited
101
Kickdrum Technology Group LLC
102
MINEZAWA Co., Ltd
103
Nauvta Energy Private Limited
104
Network People Services Technologies Limited(NPST)
105
Open Text Corporation
106
Relanto.ai
107
SEALTITE GROUP LIMITED
108
Spike Studio Co., Ltd
109
SymphonyAI LLC
110
Tantragyaan Solutions
111
Tata Technologies
112
TextronTextron Inc.
113
TOMOE SHOKAI CO., LTD
114
Visteon Corporation
115
Western DigitalWestern Digital Corporation
116
Wipfli India LLP
117
748
LTI MIntree
Sattva Group
Intellipat
Exotic Innovations
Movidu Technologies
Aviotron Aerospace
Bristlecone
Edgeverve Systems
PluralSight
Oracle OFSS
Texas instruments
BL Kashyap
LeadSquared
Renesas Electronics
Atlas Copco
Azentio Software
MINDSPRINT
Saks India
Quest Global
Tejas Networks
Boomi Software
EDUSTATION
ICICI BANK
Rocket Genie
DISH Network
Ebenus Design
House Construct
Royal cyber
Adarsh Developers
Broadridge
Greenway Heath
Insight software
K12 Technical
Mukund Sumi
Solar Edge
Altair India
British Telecom
Dover India
Nauvata Energy
Oracle CEGIU
Puran Interiors
RitikaWood
Skill Forge
Trinity Touch
Endor Labs
Ferra Aerospace
FWC IT Services
Happy Reliable
118
Idea Infinity
119
InTime Tec
120
121
122
123
Nestlé IT Hub
124
125
Parellel wireless
126
Placemantra
127
Qualigy Tech
128
129
Relevance Labs
130
131
Spektra systems
132
133
Surya Financial
134
135
Target Corporation
136
Thermo Fisher
137
138
AI Palette
139
ALTEN India
140
141
Arvind Fashions
142
143
Cyres Consulting
144
145
146
147
DocLens.AI
148
149
Garage Plug
151
Genesis Photo
152
GlowLogics
153
High-Technext
154
155
156
157
158
Jaro Education
159
Kaar Battalion
160
KALKI TECH
161
162
163
Karnataka Test House
164
165
166
Meltronics
167
Microsoft India (R&D)pvt Ltd
168
169
OnSemiconductor
170
OpMobility
171
172
173
Paralaxiom
174
Pegasystems
175
176
177
178
ServiceNow
179
SISA company
180
181
182
183
184
185
Walnutfolks
186
187
188
Wipfli India
Total Number of Placements
1181*
InternzValley
LTI Mindtree
Societe Generale
Intellipaat
Arcelor Mittal
Oracle GSC
Texas Instruments
VK Building
Alcon Laboratories
Bosch Global
Insight Software
Iron Mountain
Qbits Solutions
TECNICAS REUNIDAS
Biorad Medisys
Bosch Limited
Cyware Lab
Pluralsight
Sony India Software
Advanced Business & Healthcare
Captronic Systems Pvt Ltd
Deloitte India
Idea Forge Technologies
Magna Electronics
Matter Motors
Address Advisors
Broadridge Financial Solutions
Daimler Truck
Hashedin Deloitte
Hitachi Energy
Lead Squared
Tally Solutions
UST Global
Vedantu INnovation
YuviPep Education
3D Product
AIDEAS ENGINEERING
China State
GaragePlug
KPMG Global Services
Namaste Credit Technology
Rattle company
Sasken Technologies
service now
75F smart Innovation
Advisor360
Alliant Group
American Express
Argoid Analytics
Atkins Realis
Blitzscale tec
Cradle Point
GE Digital
IC Engineering
infobahan  softword
L&T Finance
Light & Wonder
one Advanced
Progress Rail
Progton Software
Sahaj AI Software
SFAFINITY INC
Sika Interplant
SiliConch Systems
Simple Energy
SolarEdge Technologies
Surya Software
Swastis Msala
Tanla Platforms
Tata Communications
Tech Mahindra
Toyota connected
Versa Networks
Vestian Global
Total Number of Placements *
1200
DXC Technologies
Perfios Software Solutions Private Limited
Mercedes Benz
TheMathCompany Pvt LTD
Dell Technologies
Brane Services Private Limited
JPMORGAN CHASE & CO
Oracle financial services software
Property Piston
Mobisy Technologies
Pega Systems
Elektrobit
Societe Cenerale
Continental
Velankani Electronics
Blueoptima
Brillio Technologies Private Limited
Ernst & Young LLP
IBM India Private Limited
Light and Wonder
Nandi Toyota
Progton Software Pvt Ltd
Yokogawa India Ltd.
Daimler Trucks
Happiest Minds Technologies Limited
Sagacious IP
GSK Global
Sonata Software
Vestian Global Workplace Services Pvt Ltd
ABB PVT LTD
Alcon laboratories india pvt ltd
AT&T Communication Services India Pvt Ltd
Desmet  ballestra
Indegene limited
Nagra Vision India Ltd
NoBroker.com
Plastic omnium
TransDigm Technologies India Pvt Ltd
Aadyah aerospace Pvt Ltd
Accord Global Ltd
Accrete Globus
Intime Tec
Keyence INDAI PVT LTD
L&T Financial Pvt .Ltd
Skillovilla Technologies Private Limited
Tally Solutions Private Limited
Trifacta Software India LLP
Utthunga technologies
75F Smart Innovations India Pvt. Ltd.
Affine Analytics Pvt Ltd
Alten india pvt ltd
Aravind Automata
BramhAnsh Technologies Pvt Ltd
Cafe Coffee Day
Collins Aerospace
DRG Analytics and Insights Pvt. Ltd..
ENABLE PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Glean India
GreedyGame
InfyStrat Software Services (Pvt) Ltd
Internzlearn
IRON MOUTAIN
Japnese Company
Lams research
London Stock Exchange Group
Lufthansa Technik Services India
Methode Electronics India pvt Ltd, Prosim(revoked)
Miraic.inc
Niqo Robotics
Omnicell India Private Limited
Open Financial Technologies Private Limited
Parallel wireless
Prop times
Salesforce
Skill vertex
Square Yards
Sterling Gtake
Taegutec India
Tally Prime
TECNICAS REUNIDAS ENGINEERS INDIA PVT LTD
Terminus circuits
Testvagrant Technologies Pvt Ltd
TRACXN TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED
Tsalla Aerospace
TVS Motors
Uvaska-ETS
Wissen Technology,
Yantra live
Yucca IT Solutions Pvt Ltd.
ZekeLabs Technologies Private Limited
1149
* Placements are still in progress
Placement Testimonials
Name: AchyuthSimha     Company: Kaleyra
B.E., (ISE)
6 LPA
Me I did not worry about getting placed from the beginning. I was always trying to be good in what I used to learn and it helped me to get this job.
Name: Amit Kumar Gupta     Company: OneDirect
B.E., (CSE)
20 LPA
The only thing that matter is passion towards whatever it is you're doing. Trying to learn something because you are interested in it and not for marks makes all the difference. As far as I am concerned, I hardly attended classes, sat in the last bench and had a mediocre GPA...but what mattered was my love for what I did.
Name: Ankit Kumar Singh     Company: Lowe’s India
8.48 LPA
I got placed in Lowe’s India and I am very happy with my placement. Placement office helped a lot and all my gratitude to the placement office of Dayananda Sagar College Of Engineering which helped us student to get placed in best companies in IT sector.
Name: ArjitSirmorya    Company: NCR Corporation
8.5 LPA
It was overall a great experience, all you need is to have good command on the basics and focus on what the company requirement is. There were three rounds that included two technical and one technical+HR, the interviewer was friendly and helpful. They also focused on how interested and dedicated I am toward working in the company and what was my previous research about the company.
Name: Arshad Nadeem     Company: Kaleyra
8 LPA
I studied for about half a month and coded for an hour or two daily. I cleared every coding interview that I sat for. Placements allowed me to enjoy coding again , overcome my fears during face to face interviews and also gave me the chance to join a company which was the best for me in terms of my growth and flexibility.
Name: BHARGAV B V     Company: OneDirect
I have always tried to upskill myself in every step of my college life by working on projects, internships and attending competitions like Hackathons. I also became the Student Lead at Developer Students Club which helped me teach a lot of students about the technologies. Apart from these I have always felt passionate about dancing which has kept me motivated every day. All of these have helped me to be prepared to secure a challenging position at One direct. I am very grateful to DSCE for giving me the best college experience, wonderful friends and memorable moments.
Name: Charu Srivastava     Company: Class method
B.E., (ECE)
22.7 LPA
Didn’t imagine I would be writing a “success story” someday. Cut short, after a lot of hurdles and support from family and friends, I have been campus placed and going to commence my corporate career soon in Tokyo (Japan) along with few other DSCEians. But I have learned the hard way. Before this, I was unable to convert successful written tests to respective placement offers that affected my confidence to be honest. But I never disheartened, rather I kept rectifying my mistakes from each failure and due to encouragement from my close ones. I tried a bit harder every next time, which eventually led my selection to Class method as an AWS engineer.
Name: DEEKSHITA SAVANUR     Company: Class method
22.57 LPA
DSCE has helped me land a job in Japan, I have always loved to travel and experience new cultures, which is why I was very excited when Zenken came on campus with multiple roles and companies. I went through many rounds in different companies but couldn’t get through a few. Although, I never gave up and kept applying. Finally, I got placed into Classmethod Inc. as an AWS engineer. I am excited to start my work in Tokyo next year and I’m having fun learning Japanese. This job would not only teach me new skills and ensure career growth, it will help me learn about a new culture and fulfill my travel quest.
Name: DEVASHISH SHUKLA    Company: MERCEDES Benz
6.2 LPA
It is rightfully said “Success is where preparation and opportunity meet”. Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering provided me with the opportunities that helped me in building my career and forming a better version of myself. I would like to thank my faculties, Head Of Department who helped me throughout the academics. The result of these four years of hard work came to me when I got placed at Mercedes Benz Research and Development India. For this I am highly thankful to the entire team of the Placement Department who provided me with the opportunity of getting placed in this great organization.
Name: KajalKumari     Company: Dailyhunt
B.E., (CSE)     Salary: 11 LPA
I always focused on various technical stuffs as well as all the computer fundamentals subjects such as Operating system, Databases, Computer Networks, and Object Oriented Programming Concepts. I practiced many coding questions from Interview bit, geeksforgeeks, Leetcode, Hackerrank and participated in many coding hackathons.
Name: PRANAV SWAROOP M N     Company: YOKOMORI
B.E., (Civil)
21.9 LPA
It is always a result of your dedication and will power. I was practicing CAD software and was thorough in it. I used to practice this software whenever I was free. I’m good in analyzing the steel structure drawing. I have done two internships.
Name: Puneet lalwani     Company: Zscaler
I secured a position with a company I aspired to be a part of. I have been successful in joining Zscaler as an Associate Software Engineer. I have been able to achieve this by consistent coding practice and participation in various Codeathons / Hackathons, which helped me learn and grow every day. Regular placement trainings and support from faculties at DSCE helped me to perform well during my interviews.
Name: Rohan Sarnad     Company: APPDYNAMICS
13 LPA
I used to consistently do competitive coding on hackerearth and codechef. Working on projects from different domains (languages) helped a lot. Concentrating on Data Structures and Algorithms helped in coding as well as technical rounds. Cracking the coding interview book is very important and helped during the interview.
Name: Shravani GN     Company: APPDYNAMICS
10.2 LPA
I always wanted to get a job at a prestigious company like AppDynamics, for which my college Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering paved me an easy path. I wanted to be a successful engineer which is proved through my performance and achievements. AppDynamics is a place where I can also learn. I would like to take this as an opportunity to thank my college. I hope my success story goes on like this…
Name: Shravani Shirish Urankar     Company: NoesysSoftwares
6.75 LPA
I come from a city named Davanagere. From my childhood days, I was interested in Mathematics and Science so aspired of taking up Engineering. After completion of 2 years in Information Science and Technology, I was interested in current trends and technologies. Few months of internship and workshops on IoT, Android and Machine Learning was a huge start for me. As of today I am a learner and need to achieve a lot more.
Name: SOUJANYA DINNI     Company: Perfios
7 LPA
The interview was on 7th August 2019, it had 1 apti and coding test, 2 tech rounds and 1 HR, all on same day. I was happy for getting shortlisted towards further rounds. Interviewers were warm and friendly, which made us more comfortable to answer their questions confidently. By the end of day after all rounds, we got our results. Feels great to be placed in Perfios, and excited to work for same.
Name: MEHUL PODDAR     Company: Cisco Systems Pvt. Ltd
29 LPA
With the right kind of passion, you sit before a machine and the code writes itself. Programming for me – is not work, it's a hobby; right from translating silly childhood games with code to freelancing. Never content – constantly found the need to prove myself to myself. Landing an opportunity to interview with Cisco, I found myself competing against 90+ candidates from in and outside Bangalore having contrasting experiences in the field – candidates from the NITs, graduates from 2009 and so on.
Name: K R Vadiraj     Company: Amazon
19 LPA
Growing up in a family where expectations and standards are to be met, my journey towards success began. The oppressive feeling of guilt made me realize my self-worth. It was the constant zeal and motivation for my passion with sheer dedication and commitment that paved way to where I’m today. Leaving the world of denial to being more optimistic, I landed in my dream job. I’m thrilled to be a part of this ever-giving community. This journey is just the start of a new success story altogether.
Name: VenkatAnirudh S N     Company: Magnitude India Pvt Ltd
10 LPA
Magnitude was the 5th interview that I attended. Initially I found it very difficult to clear the technical rounds and in a few cases I was very close but ended up being rejected. This actually reduced my confidence level, nevertheless I never gave up. I realized that one should never give up; he/she will definitely get what he/she deserves. The only thing one must do is keep trying, learn from your mistakes and try to rectify it. In the end, I was extremely delighted on getting placed in magnitude.
Name: RACHAPALLI MUNINAIMISHA     Company: COGNIZANT SALESFORCE
5.2 LPA
I believe in “WHEN WE EXPECT MORE, WE ACHIEVE MORE”. To achieve something big hard work is the major factor, so put a goal and work hard for it. I’m really thankful for our college management for providing plenty of opportunities and great platform to showcase our talents.
Name: Navya Dua     Company: Breathbit
21 LPA
Placements are terrifying especially when you have given a try for more than two companies but could not even make it to the 1st round. I'm a student of CSE department. I got placed at ‘Breathbit’ as a Software developer. It was one of the best moments of my life. Here, learning wasn’t just learning. It was more than kicking off my preparation with aptitude test which was the first round and acing it among 150-200 students was the first step on the ladder. For the interview process in Breathbit, 12 among us were selected. For this I started with bracing up my resume and also brushed up my technical skills. I was put up with technical and situation based questions during the interview. When the results were declared, my happiness knew no bounds as I was one of those 2 selected.
/placements/campus-hiring
2024
2023
/placements/testimonials
The placement cell in the campus is actively working closely with the passing out students and companies looking out for fresh graduates. DSCE has a strong placement record with many of the passing out students receiving multiple offers from large corporates, year after year.
Contact us for Fresher’s Hiring : BE/ M.Tech / MCA/ MBA / BCA / BBA/ BSc / BCom / MCom/ Pharmacy / Life Sciences / Journalism & Mass communication / Diploma
Mr. M.N GURUVENKATESH
Senior Vice President - Placements & Skill Development ,
Dayananda Sagar Institutions Kumaraswamy Layout, Bangalore- 560 111.
Phone : +91 80 26663981 / 42161497 Mobile : +91 9844165956,
, www.dayanandasagar.edu
Mr. NAGESH PURANIK
Director - Training & Placements
Phone : +91 80 26663981 Mobile : +91 9739213552
, www.dsce.edu.in
/placements/placements-contact
Research at DSCE | R & D | Research Scholars
Research & Entrepreneurship
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) faculties and students regularly involve themselves in research activities related to various domains, we have Twenty (20) Research Centers which are approved by Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) in different branches of Engineering catering to research scholars for obtaining Ph.D.
Various Funded Research Projects
The faculties and students are involved in various research projects sponsored by various Goverment agencies as well as private organizations....
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) has Twenty (20) Research Centers which are approved by Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) in different branches of Engineering catering to research scholars.....
Innovation & Entrepreneurship Development Center
IEDC is the brain child of the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India and is closely monitored by The National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship among students in premier colleges which has the knowledge base and sufficient infrastructure....
Derbi Foundation
In 2015, DERBI Foundation, the formal Incubation Centre was born... Since then, DERBI has been fueling the dreams of startups by enabling entrepreneurs to gather PACE , GALLOP business and EMERGE successfully through our pre-incubation, incubation and acceleration programs....
List of Research Centers
Construction Technology & Management
Medical Electronics
Engineering Chemistry
Engineering Physics
At Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE), Research and Development (R&D) stands at the heart of our vision to nurture innovation, creativity, and impactful knowledge creation. We believe that education goes beyond classrooms and textbooks—it thrives through curiosity, problem-solving, and real-world applications.
The R&D ecosystem at DSCE is designed to inspire students, faculty, and researchers to push boundaries, explore emerging technologies, and contribute solutions to societal and industrial challenges. With strong institutional support, state-of-the-art laboratories, and collaborations with industries and research organizations, DSCE fosters a culture where ideas are transformed into innovations.
Key Highlights of R&D at DSCE
Interdisciplinary Research: Encouraging collaboration across engineering, science, and management disciplines.
Funded Projects: Active participation in government and industry-sponsored projects from agencies such as DST, AICTE, DRDO, ISRO, VTU etc.
Innovation & Patents: Promoting intellectual property creation, with numerous patents, publications, and prototypes developed every year.
Research Centers of Excellence: Specialized centers focusing on cutting-edge areas like Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, Renewable Energy, IoT, Nanotechnology, Biotechnology, and more.
Student Research Culture: Providing platforms for UG and PG students to engage in mini-projects, hackathons, startup incubations, and publications in reputed journals.
Global & Industry Collaboration: Partnerships with universities, research labs, and corporate R&D wings for knowledge sharing, consultancy, and real-time problem solving. Our Commitment
R&D at DSCE is not just about discovery—it is about impact. By blending academic rigor with industry relevance, we aim to empower our students and faculty to be thought leaders, innovators, and contributors to national and global progress.
/research/research-about
Dean R & D
Dr. N. Sriraam, currently serving as Dean of R&D, Professor, and Head of the Department of Medical Electronics Engineering at DSCE, brings over 26.5 years of rich academic and research experience to the role. Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering His expertise spans wearable electronics, biomedical signal and image processing, and deep AI applications in healthcare. Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering with a PhD from Multimedia University (Malaysia) and an MTech (Biomedical Engineering) from Manipal, he has guided numerous PhD candidates, published prolifically in international journals, and led many sponsored research projects and patents. Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering as Dean R&D, Dr. Sriraam is committed to fostering a vibrant research ecosystem—promoting interdisciplinary collaborations, facilitating cutting‐edge innovation, and mentoring aspiring researchers and faculty to elevate DSCE’s research portfolio to global standards.
Dean R & D, Professor
HoD - Medical Electronics Engineering
/research/research-rddesk
Report - 2025-26
Report - 2024-25
/research/rca
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) has Twenty (20) Research Centers which are approved by Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) in different branches of Engineering catering to research scholars for obtaining Ph.D.
/research/research-centers
PhD Fellowship ( Full Time)
DSCE DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP 2025
Applications are invited for Ph.D. Fellowship (Full Time) for the Academic Year 2025–26.
(Non-IT Branches: ₹35,000/- per month for the first two years and ₹40,000/- per month for the third year, IT Branches: ₹40,000/- per month for the first two years and ₹45,000/- per month for the third year)
Instruction
Application Form
Applications are Invited for Ph.D. Fellowship (Full Time) for the Academic Year 2024-25.
(Selected Ph.D. Scholars are eligible for Fellowship stipend of ₹ 25,000/-* per month for 3 year duration, subjected to conditions as laid out in guidelines.)
Notification
Guidelines
Application form
/research/phd-fellowship
DSCE has 20 Research Centers in different branches of Engineering catering to research scholars for obtaining PhD under VTU. The faculties and students are involved in various research projects sponsored by various Goverment agencies as well as private organizations.
Project Title
Funding Agency
Coordinator / PI / Co-PI
Total Grant
Synergistic drug interactions to enhance the permeability and intracellular accumulation across the cytoplasmic membrane of M. tuberculosis
Dr. Blessy Baby Mathew (P.I.)
15000 USD
Development of a low-cost functional stack and incorporation of photocatalysis-derived column for water purification
KSCST- FPP
Dr. Blessy Baby Mathew (P.I.), Ms. Bhanu Revathi K. (Co-P.I.)
90,000
Novel design and development of a filtration unit to convert floodwater to drinking resource using graphene-based nanocomposites
Dr. Blessy Baby Mathew (P.I.), Dr. K.S. Anantharaju (Co-P.I.)
3,00,000
Biotechnology Skill Enhancement Programme (BiSEP)
Government of Karnataka
Dr. S. Kiran, Professor & Head
50 lakhs
CHEMICAL ENGG
Anaerobic fermentation studies on generation of hydrogen gas from crude glycerol
Prof. Priya s
05 Lakhs
Development of Waste Paper and Plastic Filled Polymer based composites: Waste to Wealth Approach
VGST, Govt. of Karnataka
Dr. K.S. Anantha Raju
60 Lakhs
Hybrid ferrite nano composites with enhanced visible light photocatalytic performance for next generation of clean
VTU TEQIP 3 , VTU
1.5 Lakhs
Synthesis of Kudremukh Iron Ore Mine tailing based Geopolymer aggregate using fly ash as precursor in construction
Ministry of Steel & KIOCL
Dr. H.K. Ramaraju
19.96 Lakhs
A Case Study on Effect of Coastal Oil and Chemicals Intrusion on Compaction and Consolidation Behavior of Mangalore Soil
Ministry of Earth Sciences
14.35 Lakhs
Medical Imaging And High Performance Computing Lab Internet of things(IOT) Lab
VGST K-FIST
Dr. Arbind Kumar Gupta
20.0 Lakhs
HeartHealth Tech Pvt. Ltd Startup
40.0 Lakhs
Physics Based Modeling Simulation and Electrical Characterization of quantum effects in multigate MOSFETs (on-going)
Dr. P. Vimala (PI)
Dr. Dinesha P. (Co-PI)
17 Lakhs
Precise Orbit and Clock Estimation using NavIC Ground Receiver Data (on-going since 2017)
Dr. Vignesham (PI)
Dr. K.L. Sudha (Co-PI)
32.28 Lakhs
Design & Development of Fault Tolerant Technique for reconfigurable computing applications. (on-going since 2017)
Dr. Jamuna S. (PI)
Dr. K.P. Shashikala
Dr. Dinesha P. (Co-Pi)
17.55 Lakhs
Analytical Modelling and Simulation of Triple Material Surrounding Gate (TMSG) TFET (on-going since 2017)
Prof. Usha C. (PI) Dr. P. Vimala (Co-PI & Mentor)
16.10 Lakhs
Mechanical Engg
Development and Characterization of Plasma Sprayed Flyash based Composite Coatings”
Dr. R. Keshavamurthy
Mechanical Engg.
“Synthesis and Characterization of Nano thermal barrier coatings TBCS”
Dr. Keshavamurthy
10.42 Lakhs
“Synthesis and Characterization of High Strength Manganese Bronzes with Silicon Additions”
Science & Engineering Research Board
Dr. R. Keshavamurthy, Prof. Prabhakar K
33.52 Lakhs
Indigenous Magnetic Resonance Imaging development of MRI
Ministry of Electronics and Instrumentation
Prof. Sairam Geethanath
103.6 Lakhs
Novel acquisition and reconstruction strategies to accelerate magnetic resonance imaging using compressed
Department of Science and Technology
70.32 Lakhs
Precise Orbit & Clock Estimation Using IRNSS Ground Receivers Data
Prof. N.V. Vighnesam, Dr.K.L.Sudha - Co-PI
32.28 lakhs
Empirical Solutions for Energy Harnessing from Various Sources: A Comparative Study of Battery, Solar, Wind, Petrol, and other Energy Systems Using Mathematical Modelling: A Study of select areas of Karnataka
Indian Council of Social Science Research Aruna Asaf Ali Marg, JNU Institutional Area New Delhi -110067 (ICSSR)
Dr Geetha N K Professor
6.12 Lakhs
Collaboration of Internet of Things (IOT) and High Performance Computing (HPC) for Data Integration and Analytics for
VGST - KFIST
Dr. Suma S
20 Lakhs
Preparation and studies on thin films relevant for electronics and solar cells applications
VTU Grants
Dr C M Joseph / Dr. Vidya C
15.22 Lakhs
Up-gradation of Physics lab to a Center for innovation in organic thin films
VGST CISE grants
Dr C M Joseph
30 Lakhs
/research/funded-projects
Structure of Academic Council as per the statutes of UGC
Dr. B G Prasad - Principal
(Experts from outside the College representing areas such as Industry, Commerce, Law, Education, Medicine, Engineering)
(Teachers of the college representing different categories of teaching staff by rotation on the basis of seniority of service in the college)
Dr. Sudha K L,
Dr. Rudresh M,
Asst. Prof. AE
Dr. Neethu Urs,
Prof. Civil Engg
Nominees of University (VTU)
Dr. Pundarika Ganga Naik
Dr. C. M. Ananda
Sri. Sreerangaraji M N
- Head of Departments
Member Secretary
- Dean Academics
/documents/academic-council
Academic Council Meeting 2025
Academic Council Meeting 2024
Academic Council Meeting 2023
Academic Council Meeting 2022
/documents/academic-council/ac-meeting-procedings
National Institution Ranking Framework (NIRF)
The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) was approved by the MHRD and launched by Honorable Minister of Human Resource Development.
This framework outlines a methodology to rank institutions across the country. The methodology draws from the overall recommendations broad understanding arrived at by a Core Committee set up by MHRD, to identify the broad parameters for ranking various universities and institutions. The parameters broadly cover
“Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusive,” and “Perception”
DSCE applied to get approval from the National Institution Ranking Framework.
There are many parameters specified by NIRF to get Approval, as per that below are the list of documents provide by DSCE to get rank from the National Institution Ranking Framework.
Kindly send suggestions & feedback of your observations regarding NIRF to
2025
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2025
NIRF Management Complete report 2025
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2025
NIRF Innovation Complete report 2025
NIRF SDG INSTITUTION report 2025
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2024
NIRF Management Complete report 2024
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2024
NIRF Innovation Complete report 2024
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2023
NIRF Management Complete report 2023
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2023
2022
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2022
NIRF Management Complete report 2022
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2022
2021
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2021
NIRF Management Complete report 2021
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2021
2020
NIRF Engineering Complete report 2020
NIRF Management Complete report 2020
NIRF Over-all Complete report 2020
/documents/accreditations/nirf
National Innovation and Startup Policy (NISP)
Objectives
Expert Committee
Collaborations and MOUs
IPR and Patents
NISP Policy Documents
Institution Innovation and Entrepreneurship Policy
To foster a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship that can be nurtured into viable business solutions for the benefit of the mankind.
To foster a culture of innovation in research and experiential learning.
To promote creation and commercialization of IP assets.
To create an environment for knowledge collaboration and co-creation towards strengthening business pathways.
Create an environment to expose students to entrepreneurship and develop entrepreneurial characteristics or traits in students.
Provide the information to support the creation of an entrepreneurial learning environment.
To promote entrepreneurship through faculty innovative research projects.
To encourage faculty to take up entrepreneurial mentoring.
Create awareness of venture creation as a viable career option.
To create direct or indirect employment through the entrepreneur cell.
To bring awareness about IPR through regular expertise interaction and as part of the curriculum.
Expert Committee Meeting 2025
A meeting was conducted to review the activities of NISP at DSCE in the Board room.
07-02-2025
9.30 AM
Board room, DSCE
Expert Committee Meeting
Agenda of the meeting:
Seed money applications – shortlisted through SIMSY/idea pitching/approval/disbursal
Status of FDPs sanctioned for 2024-25
Innovation Lab
Expert Committee Meeting 2024
A meeting was conducted for the formation of NISP committee in the Board room.
02-02-2024
Expert Committee Meeting 2023
05-01-2023
Expert Committee Meeting 2022
A meeting was conducted for the formation of NISP committee in the Principal Office.
01-09-2022
10 AM
Principal Office, DSCE
Expert Committee Members 2021
A meeting was conducted for the formation of NISP committee in the Principal office.
17-02-2021
10.30 AM
Principal office, DSCE
Expert Committee formation (NISP)
The following members were nominated as the expert committee at DSCE to formulate the policy under NISP and to discuss the innovation and entrepreneurship activities under NISP.
Expert Committee Members
Innovation and Entrepreneurial activities were conducted in DSCE for creating an interest in students. Many eminent entrepreneurs and experts led the talks, workshops and hands on trainings in new technologies and discussed about the transformation of an engineer to an entrepreneur.
Activities 11
Activities 10
Activities 9
Activities 8
Activities 7
Activities 6
Activities 5
Activities 4
Activities 3
Activities 2
Activities 1
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has entered into several collaborations and MOUs with reputed companies and National Institutes for research or conducting training in the fields of thrust areas and fields of mutual interests so as to benefit either way. A brief summary of the activities conducted under these MOUs are enlisted along with the details of the collaboration.
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has several patents to its credit through the students and faculty unfolded from their collaborations and research with reputed companies and National Institutes. A brief summary of the details of the patents are enlisted along with the details of filing or publishing.
IPR and Patents 2024
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has few startups by its stake holders initiated through Innovation & Entrepreneurship Development Center (IEDC) and Dayananda Sagar Entrepreneurship Research & Business Incubation (DERBI) as student Start-up and Entrepreneurship. Details of the Startups in the DSCE campus are listed here.
Startup 2024
Startup 2023
National Innovation and Startup Policy initiated by MOE’s Innovation Cell is introduced in Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore. The guidelines to initiate the related activities under NISP were approved and to be followed by the institution to pursue the innovation and startup activities of the stake holders.
Approval and I & E Policy DSCE
NISP 2019
Startup Policy Karnataka State
Startup policy DSCE
/documents/accreditations/nisp
NAAC Certificate
/documents/accreditations/nacc-certificate
NBA 2025
NBA 2024
NBA 2023
/documents/accreditations/nba-certificate
ARIIA - 2021
/documents/accreditations/ariia
Institution’s Innovation Council
Certificate
Linkage and Capacity Development
Dayananda Sagar College of engineering has established the Institution’s Innovation council (IIC) as per the guidelines of MoE’s Innovation Cell (MIC) in the year 2020. The initiative was to create a vibrant local innovation ecosystem, start-up supporting mechanism, establish function ecosystem for scouting ideas and pre-incubation of ideas and to develop better cognitive ability for technology students.
Objective of IIC:
To conduct the various threshold activities throughout the year to generate the awareness, motivate and promote the innovation and enterpreneurship culture among students and faculty members in the campus.
Functions of IIC:
To conduct various innovation and entrepreneurship-related activities.
Identify and reward innovations and share success stories.
Organize workshops/ seminars/ interactions with entrepreneurs, investors, professionals and create a mentor pool for student innovators.
Network with peers and national entrepreneurship development organizations.
Create an Institution’s Innovation portal to highlight innovative projects carried out by institution’s faculty and students.
Organize idea competition with the involvement of industries.
Constitution of IIC Council
The first council meeting of Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC), Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering was held on 03/12/2021. DSCE-IIC President Dr. A. R. Aswatha Discussed the the formulation and function of IIC & shared roles and responsibility among newly joined council members as per the guidelines of MHRD’s Innovation cell. DSCE Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC) has representation of members from faculties, students and experts from regional ecosystem. The DSCE- IIC member’s details for the academic year 2021-2022 are as follows:
Faculty Representation:
Name of Member
Member Type (Teaching/ Nonteaching / External Expert)
Key Role/ Position assigned in IIC
Head of Institution
Vice President
Asst. Professor
Start-up Activity & Innovation Activity Coordinator
Dr. C.M. Joseph
IPR Activity Coordinator
Internship Activity Coordinator
Dr. Neethu Urs B A
Asso. Professor
Social Media Coordinator
Dr. Hareesha N G
ARIIA Coordinator
Dr. Vivek Bhandarkar V N
NIRF Coordinator
Dr. Vidya. C
Dr. Naveen
Dr. Nagaraj. J
Dr. Shashi Raj. K
Dr. Blessy Baby Mathew
Dr.Rudresh M
Expert Representation
Name of Expert
Designation and Organisation Details
Mr. Shriyans Kumar Jain
Co-Founder and director of Talentree India
Start-up/ Entrepreneur
S. Kumar M.S
Vice President – Technical & Operations TMI Systems, Bangalore
A Shivakumar
Director Ministry of MSME, Govt. of India
Student Representation
Student volunteers take this leadership role and offer coordination support to faculty leads for various activities in campus.
Name of the Student
Key Role / association with
Harsh Y Shihora
IEDC and Innovation cell Student Coordinator
Sai Sri Nandan
IEDC- Core Team, Innovation cell Student member
Shivang Chhajer
Dheeraj Chandra
Shivam Gupta
Events Lead, Innovation cell Student member
Sarthak Sahu
IEDC- Finance Lead, Innovation cell Student member
IEDC - Creative Lead, Innovation cell Student member
Vaibhav Raj
IEDC - Outsourcing Lead, Innovation cell Student member
Anish Singhal
IEDC - Events Representative, Innovation cell Student member
Ishika Daga
IEDC - Design Representative, Innovation cell Student member
Nikhil Bhutra
IEDC - Social Media Representative, Innovation cell Student member
IIC Annual Report 2023-24
IIC Annual Report 2022-23
Mentor Mentee list
Mentoring Institute: Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering
Mentee Institute
Soundarya Institute of Management & Science
South-West/SWRO
Gogte Institute of Technology
A M C Engineering College
City Engineering College,
Impact College of Engineering & Applied Science
ATL School Linkage Program
12487745
GOVERNAMENT HIGH SCHOOL BASHETTIHALLI
BENGALURU (BANGALORE) RURAL BENGALURU (BANGALORE) RURAL
13377970
SRI SRI RAVISHANKAR VIDYA MANDIR
No 29,Kachamaranahalli,Gunjur Post, Varthur Hobli, Off Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560087 BANGALORE BENGALURU (BANGALORE) URBAN
29646726
THE OXFORD SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOL
The Oxford Senior Secondary School(Affiliated to Central Board of secondary education) 1st Phase, J P Nagar, Bangalore-560078 BANGALORE BENGALURU (BANGALORE) URBAN
IEDC -Team
Name of the student
Phone Number
IEDC Core Content Student coordinator
6291121605
Anjali and Nimisha
IEDC Core Design Student coordinator
anjali-6360530260
nimisha-9482139714
IEDC Core Logistics
9900476766
IEDC Core Event Management
IEDC Core Media
8847214743
IEDC Core Public Relationships
7900385322
Institution's Innovation Council Student Coodinators
S Tilak Sagar
IIC and Innovation cell Student Coordinator
9535426828
Kaashif Meraj
IIC Core Team Innovation Cell Student Member
Rajiv Chaitanya M
IIC Content Core Team
9900083172
Litchi Jain
IIC Event Management Core Team
9686394224
Siriganga R B
IIC Social Media Core Team
9483415383
Sindhu Chimma
IIC Design Core Team
7483866232
Jeenal V Gandhi
IIC Activities Team Member
8050811231
Tushar Samanth M R
8971917365
Kaustubh Kulkarni
9004358683
Vikram Krishna
9148701355
G Revanasiddesh Patil
6366035397
Amit Kumar Singh
7827191427
Dr. Roopa Farshi
Dr Vidya C
Dr. Shashi Raj K
Dr Nagaraja J
Prof. Naveena M
Dr. Prathik Jain S
Prof Ramya H P
Dr. Ganashree T S
Prof. Suresh Kumar M
15.
16.
Dr. Rudresh M
17.
Dr V S Krushnasamy
18.
19.
20.
21.
Dr. Swapnil Shantaram Ninawe
22.
Dr Sudhnva M Desai
23.
Prof. Ashwini Satyanarayana
24.
25.
Dr. Keshavamurthy R
26.
Dr. Jayaram L N
27.
28.
Dr. Ravishankar R
29.
Dr. Sudhagara Rajan S
30.
Dr Nandakumar M B
31.
Dr. B. G. Prasad
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering
Bengaluru 560078
Contact Number : 9591076602
Professor & Head,
Contact Number : 9902933340
/documents/accreditations/iic
/documents/accreditations/autonomous-approval
/documents/accreditations/ugc-approval
➺2025-26
➺2024-25
➺2023-24
➺2022-23
➺2021-22
➺2020-21
➺2019-20
➺2018-19
➺2017-18
/documents/accreditations/aicte-approval
/documents/accreditations/iso-qms
/documents/accreditations/iso-ems
Green Quality Audit Certificate
Green Campus Policy
/documents/accreditations/green-audit
/documents/accreditations/iso-fsms
/documents/accreditations/ugc-2f
/documents/accreditations/vtu-affiliation
To: All Newly Admitted Students
Prevention and Prohibition of Ragging in DSCE as per AICTE/UGC//GoK/VTU Regulations
As per the directives issued by
AICTE, UGC, VTU, and the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India
, ragging in any form is strictly
prohibited
in the premises of
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE), Bangalore
, including classrooms, hostels, canteens, buses, libraries, and any area of the campus.
Any student found indulging in
ragging or abetting
it, whether directly or indirectly, will face
strict disciplinary action
as per the existing rules and regulations. Punishments may include suspension, expulsion, debarring from academics/placements, cancellation of admission, and legal prosecution as applicable under law.
All students are hereby informed to:
Strictly refrain from any form of ragging
or harassment of fellow students—verbal, physical, or psychological.
Submit the Anti-Ragging Affidavit
(as per AICTE/UGC guidelines) duly signed by the student and parent/guardian at the time of admission/hostel allotment.
Attend anti-ragging awareness sessions
conducted during orientation and as scheduled by the college/hostel authorities.
Report immediately
to the Principal, Wardens, or Anti-Ragging Committee members if any incident of ragging is witnessed or experienced.
Support & Reporting:
The institution has constituted an
Anti-Ragging Committee and Squad
for proactive monitoring and handling of any complaints. All cases will be dealt with utmost confidentiality and seriousness.
Let us together make DSCE a safe, welcoming, and inclusive environment for all.
For detailed rules, procedures, and affidavit formats, refer to the attached files:
>> AICTE/UGC/GoK/VTU Circulars on Ragging Prevention
Bangalore – 560111
National Anti-Ragging Helpline
24x7 Toll Free
1800-180-5522
www.antiragging.in
UGC Monitoring Agency
Centre for Youth (C4Y)
www.c4yindia.org
RAGGING IS A CRIMINAL OFFENCE AND THE CULPRITS WILL ATTRACT PUNITIVE ACTION AS MENTIONED IN THE UGC REGULATIONS
www.antiragging.in/assets/pdf/annexure/Annexure-I.pdf)
/documents/antiragging
➺Internship Policy
➺Library Policy
➺Internal Quality Assurance Policy
➺Faculty Development Policy
➺Grievance Redressal Policy
➺Research & Consultancy Policy
➺IPR Policy
/documents/policies
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Center | IEDC
Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Center(IEDC)
ABOUT IEDC
IEDC ACTIVITIES
INNOVATION at IEDC
PREINCUBATION
UPCOMING PROGRAMS
Sowing the seeds for self-employment & income generation
Dayananda Sagar institutions are producing large number of trained manpower, thus fulfilling the needs of the industry, R&D institutions and other sectors of economy. In order to make optimal use of facilities, expertise and know-how available in these institutions for the benefit of the society, it is necessary that appropriate links be established between them and the industry. In addition, young graduates are also looking out for opportunities to exploit their full potential by setting up their own ventures. This necessitates systematic interventions and new instruments, which could facilitate the development and growth of new ventures by fresh graduates. Thus, it is necessary to develop mechanisms so that we could focus our attention on entrepreneurship & self-employment.
Excellent infrastructure is available at our campus for promoting Entrepreneurship.Trained faculty and focused programs inculcate entrepreneurial spirit amongst the Science, Technology and management students.
Empowerment through Entrepreneurship
The Dayananda Sagar institutions, which are leaders in developing human resources, have now taken up to produce entrepreneurs on a continuous basis, who would be employment generators, there by accelerating  the process of economic development and growth of our country.
With the increasing number of graduating students from the institutions, it is our social responsibility and concern to provide them alternate career options. Along with preparing them to be employable, it is also important to develop ‘Job creators’ than ‘Job seekers’. It is therefore necessary to motivate and train young students to take up self-employment. Hence there is a crucial need to promote Entrepreneurship among science, technology and management students. At DSI IEDC, we are undertaking this role of blending their technical inputs with entrepreneurial and managerial skills and train students for entrepreneurial challenges. Entrepreneurs are not only born, but also made.
PARTICIPATING INSTITUTIONS:
All the students, Alumni, faculty & staff of institutions under DSI spread across the three campuses are welcome to participate in the IEDC activities.
ORGANIZATION:
: Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary
: An advisory board will be formed consisting of experts from academia, industries, professional societies, R&D institutions, Alumni and leading entrepreneurs. The advisory board meets every year and reviews policies, procedures and activities of the IEDC
Managing Committee
: Heads of institutions/ departments of various programs of three campuses under DSI form the managing committee. The managing committee will meet every three months and contribute in terms of student participation, faculty expertise for mentoring and extending lab facilities for incubates.
Faculty in charge along with staff and student Coordinators
at IEDC will monitor & execute the proposed activities.
To create, mentor & nurture entrepreneurs who in turn create employment opportunities, contribute for the economy of the society and nation at large.
Our Mission is to mentor students and start up entrepreneurs with brilliant minds in harvesting their ideas that revolutionize an industry or even create an industry.
History of ED Initiatives @ DSCE...
In the year 2012 IEDC was established in DSI as an initiative to mentor innovative ideas from students and nurture them to become entrepreneurs.
IEDC is the brain child of the Department of Science & Technology, Government of India and is closely monitored by The National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) in order to promote innovation and entrepreneurship among students in premier colleges which has the knowledge base and sufficient infrastructure.
DSI is one of the esteemed Host Institutions to have been selected as Innovation and Entrepreneurship Development Centre.
OBJECTIVES
To expose the students to challenging industrial scenario and highlight the importance of entrepreneurs in the economic growth of the country.
To induce the spirit of entrepreneurship among the students and also train them to improve their entrepreneurial and managerial competence & skills.
Industry- institute interaction in the form of training and incubation.
Induction Report
PROPOSED ACTIVITIES
Pre-incubation:
Student startups are encouraged. Startups from outside are also encouraged with a condition that they hire at least two interns from DSI.
Ideate, Innovate, Improve, Implement; Platform to showcase students creative ideas here.
2 day mega event to ‘Nurture Entrepreneurship’ right from Ideation to build business plan/model. Includes 3-4 workshop, various competitions, Flee marketing
One day Workshop:
Related to Entrepreneurship
Processing of MSME-BI proposal:
GOI support Startups by funding and providing incubation to their ideas.
E-Cell activities:
CEO connect, Alumni Entrepreneur interaction, E-Competitions
Activities of 2026
January Report
Activities of 2025
February Report
March Report
April Report
May Report
July Report
August Report
September Report
October Report
November Report
December Report
Activities of 2024
June Report
Activities of 2023
Activities of 2022
Activities of 2021
Activities of MARCH 2021
IEDC INDUCTION 2021
REPORT ON IDEA GENERATION
IPR Session
MSME Result
CURRENT INNOVATIVE IDEAS ACTIVE
NAME OF THE IDEA
NAME OF THE STUDENTS
Compact flying vehicles
Harsh Tiwari
A mental health awareness venture
Sonic Fire suppression system
Abhishek Kulkarni and Ayush Shetty
Sonic pollution control system
A faster Drone using pulse jet engine
Harsh Y. Shihora
Winsol (a car wind and solar energy utlising car)
Three teams from CSE department participated in the
DCB Fintech Hackathon
event held at NEN premises on Saturday, 4th November 2017 at 12noon, and all the three teams were qualified in the prelims winning cash prize of Rs.10, 000 each....
Click here for a brief report
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering is proud to announce that the following students of Department of Mechanical Engineering graduated in 2017 were awarded the certificate of innovation excellence for their project titled “Auto adjusting roof panels maximizing day lighting” in
CZC Renewable energy Innovation
contest conducted by IIT madras & IWMA in collaboration with US consulate general Chennai and Polaris, a virtusa company......
DSCE has been recognized as HOST INSTITUTION (HI) by MSME, GOI for setting up BUSINESS INCUBATOR (BI) under the Scheme “Support for Entrepreneurial & Managerial Development of SMEs through incubators”
The following are the entrepreneurs who were funded by MSME for their ideas at our BI
NAME OF THE ENTREPRENEUR
Mr K Sahasranam
Small Size Shop  Floor CMM
CIMTRIX Systems Pvt. Ltd.
Mr H S Nikhila
Cloud Based  production Tracking  & Monitoring Solution
For Engineer
PRECITECH Precision Machineries Pvt.Ltd.
MrShreyankDivakarHampi
Ready to use  Therapeutic food  & supplements
NOVOSYNTH Health Care Pvt. Ltd.
MrPriyankSaxena
Development of Non-Invasive  Portable Vein-locator
VPHORE Media & Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
MrHemanth Singh Tomar
Gesture based  computing platform
TOMAR Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Mr P R NaganandaTejasvi
Remote Piloted Ground Control Station
ANGLE OF ATTACK Systems LLP
National initiatives on developing and harnessing innovations (Start- up NIDHI) sponsored by NSTEDB, DST, GOI and implemented by EDII, Ahmedabad had called for online applications for Student start-up NIDHI program. The following project groups submitted their proposals who were given certificates of nomination by IEDC, DSI
TITLE OF THE PROJECT
MIND CONTROL APPLICATIONS
Emergency Oxygen Generator
SAKSHAM –  A user friendly web platform to develop a more comprehensive connection between the public and police to eradicate communication and security issues to provide a more rapid and effective system.
Application of Multi-walled carbon nano tubes (MWCNTs) for surface water treatment
Development of demolition concrete mix using Pre-coating technique
Plastic road construction
Out of the 6 project groups who submitted their proposals for Student Startup NIDHI contest, the following two groups have been shortlisted for next evaluation. They have been invited to present their project on 18th June 2018 at EDII, Ahmedabad.
SHARATH U, SANGANBASAPPA VEERAPUR, SHUBHAM, SHASHIKIRAN B S
PRANAV K B
Report - 1
Report - 2
Report - 3
GUIDELINES FOR PRE-INCUBATION
The incubation center has co working space with well-equipped board/meeting room, an office with phone, printing/photocopying, Wi-fi, drinking water and rest room facilities.
DSI students who come with an idea which has a potential for becoming a commercially viable product can apply for incubation.
Aspiring entrepreneurs from outside are also encouraged to apply for incubation provided they ensure hiring at least 2 DSI students as interns.
Proposal for the same will be scrutinized by a technical team and after interview; decision for incubation will be taken.
After selection incubates have to sign an agreement in the prescribed format and fill a registration form.
DSI Pre-incubation center at 7
Floor, New Engineering Block has the following 5 startup companies with 9 seats in total.
Companies - December 2020
Name of Founder
Company Name
Contact Details Mail & Mobile No
Ravi Chivkula
Heart Health Technologies Pvt Ltd
9845193233
Mr. Srihari. U
The Digital & The Markets
9901502704
2019
2018
2017
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
Activities of 2020-21
On 7thSeptember, Ms. Maithreyi S of III year student of E&C Dept. and also an E-cell student has successfully conducted the Online Session on “Ideation”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship.19 DSCE Students were participated in the event
On 7th September, Mr. Anish Singhal of II year student of CSE Dept. and also an E-cell student have successfully conducted the Online Session on “Brainstorming”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 14 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 8th September, Mr. Sourabh Konkala of II year student of ECE Dept. and also an E-cell student have successfully conducted the Online Session on “Planning”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 9 DSCE Students were participated in the event..
On 8th September, Mr. Sai Abhishek Babu J S of III year student of ECE Dept. and also an E-cell student has successfully conducted the Online Session on “Strategy Planning”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 9 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 9th September, Mr. Yash Raj Banka of III year student of ISE Dept. and also an E-cell student have successfully conducted the Online Session on “Capital”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 14 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 9th September, Mr. Yash Raj Banka of III year student of ISE Dept. and also an E-cell student have successfully conducted the Online Session on “Marketing and Sale”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 8 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 10th September, Mr. Hardik Anirudh of II year student of ECE Dept. and also an E-cell student has successfully conducted the Online Session on “Team”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 12DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 11th September, Ms. Trushika Arya of III year student of CSE Dept. and also an E-cell student has successfully conducted the Online Session on “Launch”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 12 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
On 11th September, Ms. Esha Gupta of III year student of ECE Dept. and also an E-cell student have successfully conducted the Online Session on “Goal”, which is one among the nine stages of Entrepreneurship. 12 DSCE Students were participated in the event.
• On 13th September, a live talk with Kshitij Doval, Founder of @unhu_school and @saleforbrands gave live session hosted By IEDC E-cell Students in the Instagram platform @iedc_dsi.
On 15th September, a live talk with Gaurav Shrishrimal, Co-founder of Kaagaz Scanner, gave live session hosted By IEDC E-cell Students in the Instagram platform @iedc_dsi.
From 15th to 23rd October, Prof. Roopa Farshi has attended a 9-day Programme 'KAPILA: Kalam Program for IP Literacy and Awareness' organized by Ministry of Education (MoE), Innovation Cell and received certificate after successfully passing the Assessments.
From 16th to 18th December, Prof. Roopa Farshi has participated in the International web symposium on Technology and Management conducted by Visvesvaraya Technological University in collabaration with Aspire for her Foundation.
On 18th December, as a part of IIC activities, department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology has organized an orientation sessionon Innovation and Entrepreneurship. Students and faculty members of both the department were attended the program.
On 21st December 2020, Prof. Roopa Farshi gave an orientation talk on IEDC and its facilities at DSCE, in an induction program conducted for the first year students of academic year2020-21. by IEDC. Total 158 first year Students from different branches were atended the program along with coordinators of Induction.
Web 3.0/Metaverse
Crypto/NFT
Digital Marketing/Personal Branding
Stock Market/Behavioural Investment
Mack Stock
Treasure Hunt
Harry potter
IPL Auction
Squial games
Hunger games
Get set pitch
Gangs Wasseypur
NET(The art of selling)
Start Up EXPO
Spearker Sessions
Coffee with CEO
Ideation competition
Workshops (BMC, Design, Content)
Activities & Competitions
Academic year 2022-23
E-Summit'23
Academic year 2021-22
E-Summit'22
Activities at IEDC
Impact lecture sessions
Instagram postings and Video
Workshop on Cryptocurrency
IEDC Team meets
National Entrepreneurship Challenge 2021, IIT Bombay
Academic year 2020-21
Induction program for the first year students
Team meets of E-cell members
Induction program
Instagram live sessions
Academic year 2019-20
Outside world Interaction
Virtual Activities of E-Cell Students
EAC 2018-19
Induction Program
Outside World Interaction
Mrs Rupa Patil,
Assistant Manager- IEDC
IEDC & DSCE Pre-Incubation Center,
5th& 7thFloors, New Engineering Block
DSI, Campus-1, Shavige Malleshwara Hills,
Bangalore 560 111, Karnataka.
: 9986000835,
Landline No.
: 08042146144
Dr. Priya A Hoskeri,
Faculty in Charge
: 9686130981
Priya-physics@dayanandasagar.
/innovation/iedc
DERBI DST TBI Progress Reports
2019-20
2018-19
2017-18
2016-17
https://derbifoundation.com/
/innovation/derbi
Space Technology Cell (STC)
INITIATIVE
ACTIVITIES
DSCE and ISRO signed a MoU to establish STC in the DSCE on April 29
at ISTRAC, Peenya, Bangalore.
Motivation for the STC
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore, Karnataka, India, and the Indian Space Research Organization, Government of India, recognized the friendly relations between the two agencies and their willingness to cooperate in the area of academia as a common interest for establishing the Space Technology Cell, considering the mutual benefits and the need to strengthen cooperation within the field of Space Science and Technology.
This initiative, aims at promoting and strengthening scientific & technical exchange and cooperation between scientists, engineers of ISTRAC, and academicians and students of DSCE in the field of Space Science and Technology.
To strengthen the milieu of academic alliance, making it  the place of choice to work and grow, by fostering  intellectuals in the creation of novelty in Space Science and Technology.
Enhancement of Students’ knowledge and skills leading to the advances in Space Industry.
Augmenting faculty contribution towards R&D and innovation in Space Technologies.
All endeavors of the cell to lay emphasis on welfare of the society / man-kind
Long term objective:
Development of Satellite based technologies and to own a students’ satellite to demonstrate their capabilities and thereby improve upon the societal benefit
OBJECTIVE:
Cooperative institutional relationship to encourage the faculty and students towards the Space Science & Technology
Evolve in to an institute to design and develop a Satellite.
Functional Modalities:
Exchange and training of scientific and technical personnel
Exchange of available scientific and technological information and data
Implementation of education and training programs in the institution related to space communication
Organizing of workshops, seminars for the working groups
Transfer of equipment, know-how, and technology and technical standards on a non-commercial basis
Development of joint research or technical projects on subjects of mutual interest
Exchange visits by Government officials and technical experts for sharing of experiences on space communication, policies, frameworks, and technologies
Promoting space-related education and innovation
Mr B N Rama Krishna   Director, ISTRAC
Mr M R Raghavendra   Deputy Director, ISTRAC
Mr Sreenath   ISRO Scientist   Nodal Officer STC   Manager, ISSDC, ISTRAC
Dr Smitha Sasi  Associate Professor   Chair-STC SPOC
Student Satellite Launch Initiative:
We are proud to share that the
Space Technology Cell,Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering,
has signed an
MoU with Gonagoor Technology
for the development of an
Aerial and Orbital Satellite
. Upcoming launch of
DSCE Student Satellite
“Vishnu Chakra” in November 2025, in collaboration with Gonagoor Technologies and ISTRAC,
Sathish Dhawan Space Centre
Sriharikota. This prestigious project is a collaborative effort involving the following departments: Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, MCA (VTU),Data Science (CSE) ,Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning, Aeronautical Engineering
This initiative is expected to bring nationwide recognition to our institute and showcases our interdisciplinary strength in driving cutting-edge space technology.
Target Launch Date of Satellite : Second week of November 2025
This initiative is expected to bring
nationwide recognition
to our institute and showcases our interdisciplinary strength in driving cutting-edge space technology.
Report of the Activities under STC – DSCE -ISTRAC
Space Technology Cell (STC) in association with ISRTAC, Bangalore is established in the department of ETE, DSCE for which the MOU was signed on 29
April 2024 at ISTRAC centre.
Infrastructure set up for STC at DSCE
is in process. Request mail to all the
Directors of ISRO centres and New Space India Ltd across India has been sent for procuring
Satellite Sub System Elements
for the cell.
For this Cell, all the Satellite Models launched by ISRO are procured as given below:  o MANGALAYAAN 1:30  o CHANDRAYAAN 1:30  o OCEAN SAT 1:30  o CARTO SAT 1:30  o RESOURCE SAT 1:30  o PSLV …. to impart the awareness of various satellite launched by ISRO
Internship/project:
Three students from the Department of Information Science and Engineering have been selected to carrying out Project in U R Rao Satellite Centre on “
GUI based data analysis for Class Data from Chandrayaan
” Dr.Shyama Narendranath Scientist,U R Rao satellite Centre. The students are working on the software for the same, which will bear the name of the institute on the website of ISRO as
“Powered by DSCE” in ISRO Website.
Students from the Department of AI Ml and Three Data Science pursuing internship on
Disaster management Data analysis in “BHUVAN” portal ,NRSC Centre
Three students from department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering doing 6 months project in
Anamonly detection on the datas received by the isro satellites using deep learning and Debris
,ISTRAC  under Ms Priyanaka,scientist ,ISTRAC
Discussion with a company named Indo-Science and ISRO are in progress to train the students of
“launch of Student Satellite”.
Students from departments of ETE, ISE, AI-ML, Mechanical and Aeronautical along with one faculty coordinator have been identified for the training.
First round of orientation and Project selection has been conducted with the scientists and employees of Indo – Science Company with the faculty coordinators and some students.
On February 20th, 2025 the Space Technology Cell conducted a presentation on satellite design, where teams from AI/ML, ME, EEE, Data Science, and Aeronautical departments presented their ideas. The ISRO scientists and the Indo-Science team reviewed the proposals, and among the three proposed ideas, "
" was identified as the most feasible. This idea was proposed by Madhuri, a 3rd-semester Data Science student.
/innovation/stc
Centre for Innovation and Leadership (CIL)
CIL - is established in the year 2006 under the banner of DSI to bridge the gap between pure academics and the corporate realities. The Centre aims to impart innovative soft skill training programs to enable individuals to become champion leaders in their endeavor, and to sustain a high level of performance at the individual and the organizational level.
CIL recognizes the challenge of unleashing the potential of individuals to transform them to achieve excellence. To face the challenge, CIL is armed with eminent Academicians, Coaches, Mentors and Thinkers with hands on experience in the corporate world to design high quality training modules. The primary aim of all the training modules would be to allow individuals to take control of their lives by re-discovering their potential.
Soft Skills
In order to be versatile and successful in today's dynamic business environment, one need to have good credentials with the realization those academics is just one face of the coin. There is a growing need to learn various Soft Skills, which form an integral part of one's overall personality to improve one's own effectiveness. These additional skills sets are highly useful in the long run to build effective teams. By augmenting the existing academic knowledge, one will be able to gain significant advantage to gain a clear edge in the market place.
Induction training is an innovative device, which helps to make the students to get familiarize with the institution’s culture. Every new inductee needs to be in tune with the institution culture and the training provided to him/ her needs to be more so aligned with the course needs.
Continuous Soft Skills
This Centre aims to give high quality Soft skills training program keeping in view the globalization process and is scheduled throughout the course of various disciplines such as - Engineering, Management, Diploma in Technical Education and Information technology of DSI. Every semester various modules are delivered by our expert trainers.
Pre - Placement & Placement Training
Placement training plays a key role in a student's career. In order to stand out in the present competitive world, students require excellent functional skills, Leadership and Managerial skills and an exceptional outlook. In today's vibrant job market, organizations seek talents who have both technical and interpersonal skills. Participating in placement training enable the students to know where they stand and where they need to improve.
Events Conducted by CIL
CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT AND SKILL ENHANCEMENT ACTIVITIES FOR IMPROVING STUDENT CAPABILITY
Student Capability Enhancement Activities for the year 2023-24
Student Capability Enhancement Activities for the year 2022-23
Student Capability Enhancement Activities for the year 2020-22
Communication Skills
iTell Software:
The college has installed iTell software in 2018 in the Digital Library procured from iTell software Consultant from Calicut, Kerala. The students will be trained in various modules in the English Language Lab which enhances their English communication skills. All the first year engineering students were the beneficiaries of the iTell software. The Software consists of various audio-visual and reading exercises related to the English language. Usage of this software on a daily basis helps the students to improve their reading, writing, listening and speaking skills. The faculty members are also given a thorough training on the usage of the software.
Language Lab
The Language Lab is a place where we have different tools and materials to practice and improve our skills and also to learn the language. Language lab enhances the skills of a student, teaches English and improves the ability to Listen, Speak, Read and Write. To improve the skills in any language, one must listen and speak in order to follow the system of that language.
Soft - Skills “An Essential Ingredient for Success”
An Online Webinar on Soft Skills for the first year engineering students was organized by the Department of Physics & Humanities on 28th May 2021. The resource person, Dr. Kalpana Singh from the Department of Humanities, presented a talk on the nuances of different qualifying skills necessary for up grooming students' overall personality. The objective of the webinar was to introduce different qualities and skills to the students, right at the beginning of their undergraduate program, so that they can understand the importance of different soft skills necessary for their successful personal, academic, social and professional life and inculcate them for their betterment.
The presentation began with the introduction to the soft skills; as the skills, abilities and traits that pertain to personality, attitude and behavior, and how it influences an individual's interaction with others. The knowledge of different important skills which qualify as soft skills such as; communication skills, interpersonal skills, emotional intelligence, team work, problem solving skills, time management, creativity, leadership skills, conflict management, ability to work under pressure, personal grooming….etc. and how these qualifying skills come under different types of soft skills - Personal skills, Social skills and Methodical skills were highlighted.
CLICK HERE TO READ MORE..
Contact Us:
Dayananda Sagar Institutions, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bangalore- 560 111.
Phone: +91 80 26663981 / 42161497 | Mobile: +91 9844165956
www.dayanandasagar.edu
Phone: +91 80 26663981 | Mobile: +91 9740084217
www.dsce.edu.in
Ms. PRAVEENA SHIVAKUMAR
Head – Training and Operations
Centre for Innovation and Leadership - CIL
Phone: +91 080 42161749 | Mobile: +91 9900128088
/innovation/cil
KSTA (Karnataka Science and Technology Academy)
Institutional Membership Certificate
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering (DSCE) is proud to be an
Institutional Member of the Karnataka Science and Technology Academy (KSTA),
a prestigious autonomous organization dedicated to nurturing scientific temperament, strengthening research culture, and promoting academic excellence across higher education institutions in Karnataka.
DSCE has been enrolled as a
KSTA Institutional Member for a tenure of 10 years,
ensuring sustained academic, research, and professional development opportunities for our students and faculty members.
About KSTA
The Karnataka Science and Technology Academy (KSTA) functions as a premier autonomous body that supports innovation, research initiatives, capacity building, and scientific outreach among academic institutions, researchers, and young scientists. Through funding support, collaborative programs, and access to specialized resources, KSTA plays a vital role in strengthening the state’s science and technology ecosystem.
Key Benefits of KSTA Institutional Membership
1.  Financial Assistance for Research
Grants ranging from
₹25,000 to ₹50,000
Support for
students and young scientists undertaking short-term research projects
Encouragement for early-stage research and innovation activities
2.  Collaborative Academic Programs
Opportunity to organize
joint workshops, seminars, and conferences
in collaboration with KSTA
Programs conducted on a
cost-sharing basis
, enhancing outreach and academic impact
3.  Faculty Development Opportunities
Faculty members can enroll as
Associate Members of KSTA at a nominal membership fee
Access to professional development programs, expert interactions, and academic networks
4.  Concessions and Discounts
Discounted registration fees
for students and faculty for KSTA-sponsored training programs
subsidized KSTA publications
and academic resources
5.  Access to KSTA Infrastructure
KSTA auditorium and audio-visual studio
Facilities available at
concessional rates
for academic and research-related events
Institutional Impact
The KSTA Institutional Membership significantly strengthens DSCE’s commitment to: - Promoting
research- driven learning
- Enhancing
faculty and student research capabilities
- Encouraging
inter-institutional collaboration
- Supporting
innovation, scientific inquiry, and professional growth
Through this long-term association with KSTA, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering continues to create a vibrant academic environment that empowers students and faculty to contribute meaningfully to science, technology, and societal development.
membership reflects DSCE’s ongoing dedication to excellence in education, research, and innovation.
/innovation/ksta
For E-Resources Click Here...
Faculty members and students of DSCE are here by informed to note that, the library has made additional services in accessing of E-books from your desktop inside the campus. To access click on the URL:
Library serves as a resource centre and aims to develop a comprehensive collection of books and journals useful for faculty and students of the institute and provides an efficient dissemination of knowledge.
Library aims to be one of the best among engineering college libraries in the country.
Library intends to incorporate the latest technology and adopt a user friendly approach towards students and faculty.
Library intends to offer comprehensive services related to diffusion of knowledge.
Corporate Membership
CLICK HERE...
VTU & Autonomous question papers
Kindle E-book
Library Timings
Circulation Section
On all working days : 09.00 AM – 05.30 PM
Reference Section
Monday – Friday : 09.00 AM -10.00 PM
On working Saturdays : 09.00 AM – 05.00 PM
Periodical Section
On all working days : 09.00 AM – 05.00 PM
Private Study zone
Monday – Friday : 09.00 AM - 10.00 PM
Digital Library
Searching of Library Books / e-Books through OPAC
Additional Services
Newspaper Clippings
Library Brochure
Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering has built up a reputation of higher academic standards in all specialties of Engineering for three decades now, a true reflection of dedication and hard work. One of the pillars of such high standards is its high-quality Library facilities. This college's academic excellence is reflected in its harmonious blend of Infrastructure and its academic environment with high quality Library. The Library facilities here are state-of-the-art following the latest automated RFID technology and Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering is the first Private sector Engineering College in India to install this system. This latest system is user friendly and provides access to any book available in few minutes. The Library has a huge collection of over a lakh Books & E-books, along with CD's and DVD's apart from latest Journals and Periodicals.
Evident from the acknowledgements and positive remarks by the visiting faculty and dignitaries, the intellectual standards of Dayananda Sagar Engineering are truly reflected in its high standard Library. This Library is accessible to all Undergraduates, Postgraduates, and PhD scholars of different Specializations and also to the Faculty. Along with this, access to e-Books and e-journals is also available through the Digital Library with dedicated systems. It has also a mini auditorium designed for seminars, Academic Presentations and other educational activities.
Our Library consists of skilled, professional and compassionate staff members who are always pleased to help the users.
Library and Information Centre
Chief Librarian
Milestones
Library Staff
Collections
New Arrivals
Plagiarism Checking Tool
Advisory Committee
Membership
Circulation
Reference Services
Private Study Zone
Form Downloads
Inter-Library Loan
User awareness
Print Zone
Digital Libray
Media Resource Centre (AV Auditorium)
E-Resources (Publishers wise)
Open Access Resources
Open Access e-Databases
Dictionaries
Encyclopedias
useful URLs
RFID System
OPAC Search
Library Events
Video Surveillance
Library Feedback Form
/facilities/library
For e-Resources Click Here...
Brief Report on Kindle E-book Reading Zone
Kindle e book reading zone was inaugurated by Mr. Rohan Prem Sagar, Joint Secretary, DSI and Member of Governing Council, DSCE. Dr.CPS Prakash Principal, DSCE, Dr, Ashwath, Dean and HOD Telecommunication department, Dr. J. C David, Chief Librarian and all staff of Main Library were present on this occasion.
The Kindle E Book Readers are having the following features :
Subscribed amazon E-Books
More Than 70,000 nos. of e- books available
9 Languages
Multiple subjects covered- including light reading and rare book
No Eye Strain, Reads like Real Paper
Text Read and Listen option through the Blue Tooth Device
Supported by Dictionary and Wikipedia
Note and Highlight option
User friendly operations.
/facilities/library/kindle-e-book
DSCE encourages students to explore their latent talents by providing World Class Sports and Games facilities. The institute is equipped with the following.
Indoor Sports
MODERN GYMNASIUM
TABLE TENNIS
TWO INTERNATIONAL LEVEL SQUASH COURTS
VOLLEYBALL COURT
GYM FACILITY
SQUASH COURT
CARDIO EQUIPMENTS AT GYM
OUTDOOR SPORTS
BASKETBALL COURT
CRICKET PRACTICE PITCH
FOOTBALL FIELD
SYNTHETIC TENNIS COURT
THROWBALL COURT
YOGA / AEROBIC HALL
SYNTHAETIC TENNIS COURT
STADIUM GALLERY & OUTDOOR PLAYGROUND
Year wise Sports Reports
Ms.Gilbert Leititia, I Year student (Cyber Security) won Silver medal (Fencing/Seniors) in CM Cup Dasara Sports Meet 2023.
Dr.C.P.S Prakash,Principal DSCE and Mr.Nanjundaswamy, Physical Education Director receiving the prestigious “Best Performing Institute” Cash award (Rs-1,00,000/-) for promotion of sports activities from V T U Vice- Chancellor on Achievers Day Ceremony held on 19th October-2019
Sri. Galiswamy, Secretary Dayananda Sagar Institutions, Dr. C.P.S Prakash, Principal DSCE, congratulating Shriya R Bhat, 2nd SEM- Bio Tech- for achieving 5 Gold medals in swimming at Revels’20 National Cultural and Sports Fest Organized by Manipal Institute of Technology from 4th to 7th-March-2020.
Vaibhav Patil, 7th SEM- CTM Secured 2nd place in 100m & 200m Run in VTU Inter Collegiate Athletic Meet organized by S J C Institute of Technology from 22nd to 25th October-2019.
Mr.Rahul, 7th SEM-ISE, Secured 1st Place in 75 kg category in VTU-Best-Physique Competition, at Sri Sai Ram College of Engineering On 14th & 15th October-2019.
Mr.Rahul,7th SEM–ISE, Secured 3rd place in Dasara Shree – 2019, Body building competition at Mysore, on 3rd & 4th October-2019.
Football Men’s team were Runner up in Kreedotsava, organized by BMS College of Engineering, from 1st to 4th October-2019.
Swimming Women’s team bagged Championship in VTU State Level Inter Engineering College Swimming competition for Men & Women, Organized by MSRIT on 18th Sep-2019
ShriyaBhat-1st SEM–Bio Tech- Secured 2-Gold, 4-Silver Medals
Nandini .S.S- 1st SEM- CSE, Secured 2- Gold, 2- Silver, 2-Bronze Medals
Rishab.C.Shirur – 3rd SEM -CSE, Secured 1- Gold, 1- Silver Medal in VTU State Level Inter Engineering College Swimming competition for Men & Women, organized by MSRIT on 18th Sep-2019.
Table Tennis Men‘s team were Runner up in VTU Inter collegiate Zonal & Inter Zonal Tournament, Organized by BMS College of Engineering, from 1st to 5th October-2019.
Throwball Women’s team were runner up in Bhavana Memorial Inter Collegiate Throwball Tournament, Organized by GAT, on 17th October-2019.
Volleyball Women’s team were Runner up in Kreedotsava, Organized by BMS College of Engineering from 1st to 4th October-2019.
Volleyball Men’s team secured 3rd place in VTU Inter Collegiate Tournament Organized by GAT, on 3rd & 4th March-2020.
Chetan.B.Rao-7th _ EC Secured 1st place in Judo under-66 kg category in VTU Inter Collegiate Competition organized by S J C College of Engineering on 6th & 7th September-2020.
University Representation
The following Students have represented VTU in different Sports held during-2019-20
Rishab.C.Shirur – 3rd -SEM-CSE, represented VTU Aquatic team (Men & Women) in All India Inter- University Championship held at Lovely Professional University, Punjab from 1st to 8th November-2019
Shriya.R.Bhat – 1st –SEM-Bio-Tech, represented VTU Aquatic team (Men & Women) in All India Inter- University Championship held at Lovely Professional University, Punjab from 1st to 8th November-2019
Nandini.S.S -1st -SEM-CSE, represented VTU Aquatic team (Men & Women) in All India Inter- University Championship held at Lovely Professional University, Punjab from 1stto 8th November-2019
M-Karthik-6th-SEM-ISE, represented VTU Baseball team in All India Inter University Competition scheduled at Royal Global University, Guwahati (Assam)
/facilities/athletics-fitness
is dedicated to supporting students with challenges related to emotional and mental well-being, academic stress, and other personal concerns. The sessions are conducted on a
one-to-one basis
, allowing students to openly share their difficulties in a safe, confidential, and supportive environment.
Each counselling session typically lasts
45–60 minutes
, with the frequency and follow-up depending on the student’s individual needs, goals, and progress. While some concerns can be addressed through short-term counselling, more complex issues may require periodic follow-up sessions to ensure gradual and sustained improvement. Students seeking help are scheduled for the earliest available appointment.
Counselling services are provided by
qualified counsellors, licensed psychologists, and therapists
, who approach every student with empathy, respect, and non-judgment, ensuring complete confidentiality.
The counsellor’s role is to:
Help students cope with crisis situations and reduce distress.
Support personal growth and overall well-being.
Assist in reshaping thought patterns, emotional responses, and behaviours.
Set clear, achievable goals to track and encourage progress.
Outcome of Counselling
Through counselling, students are able to:
Develop effective coping skills.
Improve decision-making abilities.
Strengthen interpersonal relationships.
Experience positive changes, often within just a few sessions, with sustained improvement through follow-ups where needed.
/facilities/counselling-center
YOGA & MEDITATION
Yoga & Meditation:
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION
CENTRE FOR YOGA AND MEDITATION
– SHIVA SAGAR MEDITATION HALL - DSI
YOGA INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Sudhindra
[ P.G. Diploma in Yoga & M.Sc in Yogic Science from Annamalai University, B.NAT (Bachelor of Naturopathy @ Yogic Science Degree) from Madras University., B.A.M.S (Bachelor of Alternative Medicines) from Calcutta University. A certified yoga teacher from Adi Shankara Yoga Kendra]
Dr. Sudhindra -
is a Yoga Therapist. He joined  Dayananda Sagar Institutions(DSI)  in the year 2018 as Yoga instructor / Mentor to train the Teaching Faculty, Staff & Students of DSI.
Dr. Sudhindra, introduces Yoga and Meditation techniques to the newly joined students of both DSI and Dayananda Sagar University (DSU). His commitment also extends in conducting regular training sessions for the faculty members and the staff of DSI and DSU at the Meditation Centre, DSCE, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bangalore.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he has conducted many online sessions on YOGA & Meditation for the benefit of students as well as
Type of activity conducted
Performance Acceleration and Stress Management
Webinar – Personal Counselling and mentoring cell
DSCASC Dayananda Sagar College of Arts, Science, and Commerce
and 4
July 2020 online mode
Total No. of participant
Internal 26 and External 76
DSCE Cultura (Online)
Yoga Science and meditation – Episode – 9
During 11
April and 5
July 2020
Aired online in google meet platform
Yoga for the Sedentary Life Styled / Desk Jockeys
Simple Asanas / Yoga Mudra for Eyecare – neck pain – shoulder pain – backache, knee pain, etc.,
July 2020 –Digital workshop on Yoga
No. of Participants:
Student – 187 and Faculty – 20
Enhancement of Memory & Natural Immunity through Yoga & Meditation
Memory Management & Meditation for Immunity of individual self – Clapping exercise, Deep Breathing, Kapalabathi, Bramari yoga, Anuloma Viloma pranayama
MBA - Branch
January 2020
Participants:
Student:64, Faculty: 3
Yoga and Meditation Class at Shiva Sagar Meditation Hall – 7
Floor Apex Block – DSCE Campus
Yoga and Meditation for DSI Dental Science Staff and student
Stress-Free body & Mind, performance Enhancement, Health improvement & Inner Happiness
DSI Dental Science Staff and student
October 2019
Math for Machine Learning and Effectiveness of Yoga and Meditation on Human Mind
Invited talk  by Shankar Raman – IISc, Bengaluru
Department of Mathematics - DSCE
September  2019
Chakra meditation and improve yoga to keep good health
Inspiration Talk on Yoga and Meditation
Department of ISE – DSCE
September 2019
For students of 3rd-semester ISE
For Student of 5
Semester ISE
Lecture on Yoga for students of DSI
Guest Lecture on Yoga and Meditation
28/8/2019 and 30/8/2019
Fit India movement Walkathon
Walkathon for fitness
DSIT –DS Institute of Technology
29/08/2019
Chakra Meditation classes for Engineering students of DSCE
Enhancement of performance
Stress Clearing with relaxation, Health enhancement, Clarity & Happiness
DSCE – 1st-year students of DSCE (Physics cycle)
August 2019
DSCE – 1st-year students of DSCE
(Chemistry Cycle)
(Physics cycle)
The practice of Yoga and meditation for student/staff
DSCE Faculty / staff / student
July 2019
Nurturing the Mind through quantum science – an ability enhancement
FDP on Multidisciplinary perspectives in Science for Engineering Applications
During 22
July to 27
Performance Acceleration and Stress management techniques
APTHAMITHRA  - Mentoring and Personal Counselling cell
DSCASC – BBA and BCom staff
July 2020 using Team link platform
Internal 26 External 76
Improving Focus Through YOGA
Basic yoga techniques for mental strength, breathing exercise, memory management
DSCASCE – BCA Students
( 2
semester & 4th
March 2020 and 6
March 2020
Yoga and pranayama classes as per instruction from AICTE for Polytechnic students
Orientation / Induction Programme
2-week yoga/pranayama classes for the 1st-year student of DSIT
July to 14
International Yoga Day – 2019
Practice yoga to transform your body and mind physically, mentally, and spiritually.
DS College  of Dental Science – Department of Public Health Dentistry and DSCE for Faculty and Staff
June  2019
Chief Guest: Mr. Hata Yogi L. Chandrachari – Yoga expert
Yoga Meditation and Fitness
Yoga and meditation practices in daily life.
DSCASCE – MBA Faculty / Staff & students
June 2019
Practical Session of Mind and meditation Classes
Stress management, Being Energetic,  ailment for body and mind, adopting clarity and focus of thoughts
DSCE – Shiva Sagar Meditation Hall
From 22
April 2019
(30 sessions conducted during 11
April 2020 and 28
May 2020)
Between 4.30 to 5.15 pm, Monday to Thursday)
Simple yoga and Meditation Class
Yoga and Meditation techniques for well being
Department of yogic science and meditation –DSCE
March  2020
Meditation Class for Engineering students
Induction program on yoga and meditation
DSI / DSCE
March 2019 to 13
April 2019 (19 sessions)
Stress management through yoga
FDP on Yoga Meditation
DSCASCE – Staff of BBA / B.Com
At Shiva Sagar Meditation Hall
Meditation Classes
Meditation classes for 1
year Engineering students of DSCE
During regular College hours
Feb 2020 onwards
Mediation Classes for Faculty / staff
Meditation classes
DSCE – Shiva Sagar meditation hall
Jan 2020 onwards
/facilities/yoga-meditation
Scholarships Details
DAYANAND SAGAR COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING, BANGALORE - 560 111
VARIES TYPES OF SCHOLASHIPS
TYPE OF SCHOLARSHIP
SPONSORSHIP
ELIGIBILITY
PROCEDURE TO APPLY
AIC-DSU Foundation - Scholarships: Research Scholars & Scientific Officers
NITI Aayog, Government of India and Dayananda Sagar University, Bengaluru and support by the Innovation Labs established with assistance from MNCs
Young achievers with a master’s degree in Science/Engineering and desirous of working on a doctoral program leading to the award of a PhD are invited to apply to the position of: Research Scholars & Scientific Officers. Candidates with research/ industry experience would find preference.
For more details:
Post Matric Scholarships Scheme for Minorities
MINISTRY OF MINORITY AFFARIS GOI
Students belonging to six notified minority communities viz. Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi (Zoroastrian) studying in India and fulfilling the Scheme guidelines are eligible to apply for these scholarships.
For more details visit NSP (NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP PORTAL) wibsite
Apply through NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP PORTAL
Merit Cum Means Scholarship For Professional and Technical Courses CS
Post-matric Scholarship for Students with Disabilities
DAPARTMENT OF EMPOWERMENT OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
The students with the specified disabilities defined in schedule of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act.2016 will be eligible for the scholarships
Scholarships for Top Class Education for students with disabilities.
Financial Assistance for Education of the Wards of Beedi/Cine/IOMC/LSDM Workers - Post-Matric
MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT. GOI
Parents of the students should be Beedi, Iron Ore Manganese & Chrome Ore Mines, Limestone & Dolomite Mines, Cine worker with atleast six months service,includes Contract/Gharkhataworkers .
CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME OF SCHOLARSHIPS FOR COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY STUDENTS
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION.GOI
Students who are above 80th percentile of successful candidates in the relevant stream from the respective Board of Examination in Class XII of 10+2 pattern or equivalent and pursuing regular courses and not availing benefit of any other scholarship scheme including State run scholarship schemes
Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme For Central Armed Police Forces And Assam Rifles
WARB,MINISTRY OF HOME OFFAIRS
Wards/widows of deceased CAPFs & AR personal died in harness/clection duty, wards of personal disabled due to causes attributable to govt. service and ward of Ex-CRPFs & AR personnel in receipt of Gallantry Awards. Dependent wards of State Police Personnel who are martyred during Terror/Naxal attacks
PRIME MINISTER'S SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME FOR WARDS OF STATES/UTs POLICE PERSONNEL MARTYRED DURING TERROR/NAXAL ATTACKS
Prime Minister's Scholarship Scheme For RPF/RPSF
RPF/RPSF,MANISTRY OF RAILWAY
FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THE STUDENTS OF NER FOR HIGHER PROFESSIONAL COURSES(NEC MERIT SCHOLARSHIP)
NORTH EASTERN COUNCIAL,DoNER
PRAGATI SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME FOR GIRL STUDENTS ( TECHNICAL DEGREE)
ALL INDIA COUNCIL FOR TECHNICAL EDUCATION(AICTE)
Maximum two girl child per family. Family income from all sources should not be more than Rs. 8 lakh per annum.
SAKSHAM SCHOLARSHIP SCHEME FOR SPECIALLY ABLED STUDENT ( TECHNICAL DEGREE)
Specially-abled student, having disability of not less than 40%. Family income from all sources should not be more than Rs. 8 lakh per annum.
E-PASS/KAREPASS
DEPT OF BACKWARD CLASS WELFARE,GOK
Parental Annual Income below 1 lakh
For more details visit SSP (STATE SCHOLARSHIP PORTAL) wibsite
CATEGORY-I
Parental Annual Income below 2.5 lakhs
POST MATRIC SCHOLARSHIP FOR SC/ST STUDENTS
DEPT OF SOCIAL WELFARE,GOK
Parental Annual Income Between 2.5 to 10.00 lakhs
EDUCATION ASSISTANCE TO CHILDRAN OF THE ORGANISED WORKERS
DEPT OF LABOUR. GOK
50% MARKS - FOR GENARAL 45% MARKS - FOR SC/ST
klwbapps.karnataka.gov.in
JINDAL SCHOLARSHIP
SITARAM JINDAL FOUNDATION
For more details visit JINDAL wibsite
Application download from Jindal wibsite & submit the same to jindal foundation office after the signature from the head of the institute alongwith necessery docuements
DHARMSTHALA KSHEMABIRUDDI SANGA
Collection & submission of the Application at DHARMASTHALA KSHMABIRUDDI SANGA office after the signature from the Head of the Institute alongwith necessery docuements
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO THE CHILDREN OF TEACHERS
TEACHRS BENIFIT FUND
For more details contact BLOCK EDUCATION OFFICER of Concerned Tuluk
Collection & submission of the Application at TEACHRS BENEFIT FUND {TALUK BEO OFFICE} after the signature from the Head of the Institute alongwith necessery docuements
/facilities/scholarships-details
Student Centric
Faculty Development Program
In everyday life, the development of Life Skills helps an individual to find new ways of thinking & problem solving. Recognise the impact of their actions & teaches them to take responsibility for what they do rather than blame others. Build confidence both in spoken skills & for group Collaboration & Cooperation
Sushma Lingraj
Student Counsellor,
Life Coach, Motivational Speaker, DSI
Seminar on Life Skills
Date: 9th January, 2024
Session on Life Skills
Date: 13th & 15th December, 2023
Strategies to accept and Overcome failures or challenges
Date: 18th October, 2023
Target Audience: Mechanical Engineering students of DSCE
Strategies to Overcome challenges
Date: 11th October, 2023
Target Audience: Aeronautical Engineering students of DSCE
Date: 10th October, 2023
Target Audience: Chemical Engineering students of DSCE
Universal Human Values
Date: 17th August, 2023
Target Audience: CS & E students of DSCE
Gain from being Disciplined
Date: 26th July, 2023
Target Audience: 4th Semester AI & ML students of DSCE
Mental Awareness; Self – Motivation Mechanics
Date: 12th June, 2023
Target Audience: 6th Semester Civil students of DSCE
Dare To Be Brave
Date: 22nd November, 2022
Target Audience: 1st Year Engineering students of DSCE
Sow a Character, Reap a Destiny
Date: 31st May, 2022
Time: 11:00 AM onwards
Target Audience: Engineering students of DSCE
FDP under ATAL Scheme
Faculty Development Program under ATAL Scheme
Be Calm, be kind and be happy!!
Date: 20th December, 2023
Time: 3.00 - 5.00 pm
Balance in Mental Being
Date: 1st August, 2023
Time: 10:00 AM onwards
Target Audience: AI & ML Faculty of DSCE
Live Your Life
Date: 11th February, 2023
Target Audience: Engineering Faculty of DSCE
Life skills sessions
/facilities/life-skills
DSCE clubs
A REPORT ON DRISHYAM DSCE PHOTOGRAPHY CLUB ONLINE WORKSHOP ON “ART OF BEING A PHOTOGRAPHER”
Date: 30 July 2020, 11 am
Program: Online workshop on “Art of being a Photographer”
Venue: Department of Physics, DSCE
PHOTOGRAPHY EXHIBITION
Date         :
12-14 October 2017
Program  :
Photography Exhibition
Venue      :
Premachandra Sagar auditorium, DSI.
A photography exhibition was conducted on 12-14 October 2017 during Vibrations 2017 by the Photographic club, DSCE. Many students participated in displaying their photographs in the auditorium. Student coordinators under the leadership of Abhishek Agarwal made the exhibition successful with the prints displayed. Principal Dr. C.P.S. Prakash and Vice Principals Dr. Ramesh Babu and Dr. Ramakrishna visited the exhibition and appreciated for conducting such an elegant exhibition and also extended their whole hearted support to the future activities of the Photographic club. Many faculties and students visited this exhibition and made it a success. This exhibition was coordinated by Mrs. Aruna P, Asst Professor, Physics department with guidance of Dr. C. M. Joseph, HOD of Physics, DSCE.
Principal Dr. C.P.S. Prakash declared the prizes for the online photographic competition held for first semester and higher semester students.
WORKSHOP ON PHOTOGRAPHY 2.0
Date           :
16 September 2017.
Time          :
1.30 -3 PM.
Program   :
Photography workshop 2.0.
BB 301
Photography club has conducted its second workshop on photography on 16th September 2017 for around 30 students. The workshop was held by a senior student Mr. Abhishek in which he spoke about a photograph as a STORY with THREE ACT NARRATIVE.
His discussion was on how one can control that narrative via FRAMING. He covered various topics like Golden Ratio, Guiding Lines, Positive: Negative Space, Foreground: How it creates a sense of depth in Landscape and Tilting.
Click here for the complete report ...
WORKSHOP ON PHOTOGRAPHY 1.0
12 September 2017.
3.30 -5 PM
Photography workshop 1.0.
Venue       :
AV auditorium, DSI.
Physics department has initiated a photography club for first year engineering students who have passion for photography. DSCE Photography club has more than 100 participants along with few senior students. This club has conducted a workshop on photography on 12th September 2017.
/activities/student-activities/dsce-clubs
/activities/student-activities/dsce-clubs/photography-club
Nature Club
NATURE CLUB DSI
Tree Plantation
29-07-2023
The Tree Plantation -MeriLiFE (Massive Tree Plantation Drive 2023) drive under AICTE
The Management of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, Bangalore has always extended its support in encouraging its students to get involved in Green development and Eco-environmental activities .In this direction, our nature club is being one of the student bodies in the campus working towards saving our mother nature.
Click here to see more...
Community Volunteering Day
20-09-22
Community volunteering day @DSCE
This session was a unique exposure for the budding engineers to play their part of social involvement. Around 100 students from different branches of engineering departments. The activities were designed to cover volunteering qualities to other nature lovers.
Field Visit to “Swachagraha Kalika Kendra”,HSR Layout, Bengaluru on 16-09-2022
16-09-2022
Field visit to “Swachagraha Kalika Kendra”,HSR Layout, Bengaluru on 16-09-2022
The field visit to Swacha graha kalika kendra was planned to imbibe the responsibility of a citizen to take initiation towards cleaner and safer environment. The students were asked to register for the field visit at the departments of various branches of engineering.
Yoga for Beginners
19-8-2022
Yoga for beginners
In line with our club’s motto to bring humans close to nature , the next activity planned was the a wellness program : “Yoga for beginners”. In today's lifestyle due to long working hours on a desk could not only hurt our spine but also make us feel tired at the end of the day.So this activity was designed to our students to get started with this mind-body practice sessions.
Beginner’s Guide to Terrace Gardening
23-07-2022
“Terrace gardening and kitchen gardening was organized by Nature club Prakuthi, DSCE ( Department of Physics and Civil Engineering)in association with SPICES project (AICTE) for the students on 23- 07-2022 at 9.00 AM at DSCE campus for the club members.
Rangoli Competition
02-07-2022
The theme of the rangoli competition is “Save water”, this contest helps bring attention to how important water is to all living things on the planet. The contest is designed to encourage our young artists to express their own ideas, in relation to the chosen theme.
One Day Field Trip to Geenmagic Farm, Kanakapura
18-6-2022
A one day field trip to Geenmagic farm, Kanakapura through Prakruthi Nature Club, DSCE (organized by the Departments of Physics and Civil Engineering) under SPICES (AICTE) program was conducted on 18.6.2022.
World Earth Day Celebrations 2022
23-04-2022
World Earth Day was celebrated at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering on 23rd April 2022 through our Nature club Prakruthi in association with ISHA foundation, Bengaluru. Dr. C.P.S. Prakash, Principal hosted the event by a tree plantation. Mr. Vishnu Nidhin, ISHA volunteer addressed the students and faculty about the Save Soil Movement and explained the responsibilities of each one to save the mother earth. All the students and faculty supported the Save Soil Movement.
Painting Competition
8th April 2022
Nature is made of everything we see around us – trees, flowers, plants, animals, sky, mountains, forests and more. Human beings depend on nature to stay alive. Nature helps us breathe, gives us food, water, shelter, medicines, and clothes.
Orientation Program on Organic Gardening
24-11-2021, 22-02-2022
Under Prakruthi-Nature club DSCE in association with AICTE-SPICES three dry compost pits were installed on 24-11-2021 inside DSCE campus behind the IEM engineering block. Mr. Yadunandan gave a demo to our club members about the complete life cycle of dry leaf turning into compost which can be used as manure for organic farming.
“Environmental Reasons to Switch to a Safe and Hygienic Personal Care”
28-09-2021
Prakruthi-Nature club, DSCE is a student centric club which is first of its kind initiated in the campus towards saving our Mother Nature, started by Department of Physics and supported by management DSCE the club mainly aims at our contribution to a safer and cleaner environment in and around our campus.
A REPORT ON THE INVITED TALK ON “Technology: Aid to Municipal Solid Waste Management”
25 Nov 2020, 10 am
Online invited talk on “Technology: Aid to Municipal Solid Waste Management”
Mrs. Soumya Pattar (Coordinator, Samashti (NGO), Bangalore).
Organizers:
Nature Club, Department of Physics, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering
Prakruthi-Nature club, DSCE is a student centric club which is first of its kind initiated in the campus towards saving our Mother Nature, started by Department of Physics, DSCE mainly aiming at our contribution to a nature friendly DSI campus at a small scale and extending to the nearby places within the surrounding of the college at a large scale. To meet the mission of the club, every semester many activities are organized under club such as Plantation programs, Field trips, talks by subject experts on issues like challenges in maintaining cleaner and safer environment, solid waste management, Kitchen gardening, Terrace gardening, Composting are few of the topics to name. This webinar on “Technology: Aid to Municipal Solid Waste Management” was organized on 24th of November 2020, on Zoom platform.
Nature club Workshop on Kitchen Gardening
11-03-2019
Report on Nature club workshop on Kitchen gardening
“Prakruthi” the nature club of DSCE with objectives to plant trees in and around the college campus, to achieve cleaner and greener campus by educating the society about managing kitchen waste, to get attached with government/private centers working for the betterment of nature ,to educate the youths about their roles and contributions for meeting the aims of the club, conducted a workshop on “Kitchen and terrace gardening for safe and balanced environment” on 11-03-19 by Mr.Vishwanath P D (Officer, Horticulture department, Lalbagh, Bangalore). The program started with a welcome address by Dr.Priya Hoskeri (faculty coordinator).Then the speaker gave a vast information on how to utilize the available space at our premises and turn the space in to small in/out door gardens. This gave the audience an idea to manage available space and come up with a personalized garden which requires less space, easy to maintained greenery that gives satisfaction of being one with our mother nature. Further the speaker highlighted about how to set up a terrace garden and types of plants that can be selected to suite our kitchen and medicinal requirements which are free from huge amount of pesticides. The speaker showed the different methods of setting up terrace gardening and highlighted on after-care procedure to maintain the garden. As a tradition followed by the club a sapling plantation was also done by speaker along-with our Principal Dr C P S Prakash, Vice Principal Dr. H Ramakrishna and Dr. C M Joseph, HOD Physics. A pledge was then sworn by all the participants and a vote of thanks was given by the student representative Mr Kiran, Around 80 students witnessed the event gaining the knowledge on the topic. Few glimpses of the events were captured by Mr. Suhas M and Mr.Saurabh Singh.
One day training on ‘Terrace gardening” by Nature club
24-03-2018
Horticulture training center, DSCE.
A one day training on Terrace gardening on behalf of Prakruthi, Nature club, Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering was conducted on 24-03-2018 (Saturday) in Horticulture training center, Bangalore. Members of the club were the participants along with faculty coordinator Dr. Priya Hoskeri and Dr. Naveen S M. The session was on ‘Terrace gardening’ by Mr. Vishwanath, organic certification Inspector of the horticulture department. The session started with the registration procedure and then a small introduction to the horticulture department was given by the authorities and a basic information on what is the need for terrace gardening and how to proceed with it and to set up and maintain were highlighted. The information given in the introduction part mentioned that for terrace gardening most of the sun loving trees need at least 8 hours of direct sun light and shade loving trees need varied degrees of less intense light (shade), the plants also need good and deep soil.
The basic steps to set up terrace gardening were demonstrated and a visual tour was scheduled for a real time understanding of the concept. The members of the club were enlightened with the knowledge gained during the session. Students and faculty coordinators sincerely thank our HOD, Vice principal, Principal and the Management for facilitating us to attend the training programme.
Inauguration of the NATURE CLUB
INVITATION
Nature Club Prakruthi was inaugurated by
Dr. C P S Prakash
and Vice Principal
Dr. Ramesh Babu D R
along with
Dr. C M Joseph, HOD Physics
and Dr. Priya A H, faculty coordinator. Principal mentioned the importance of the Nature Club in such a vast campus and expressed his support to all the activities to be conducted in the near future. .
Our nature club is first of its kind initiated in the campus towards saving our mother nature.Started by Department of Physics, DSCE mainly aims at our contribution to a nature friendly DSI campus at a small scale and extending to near by places within the surrouding in and around the college at a large scale.Our nature club was consituted with first year students as club members and aims at improving the diversity of plant life at our campus.The thought of coming up with the club specifically aiming at saving nature started with the selection of committee members and defining the aims and objectives of the club
/activities/student-activities/dsce-clubs/nature-club
AERONAUTICAL SOCIETY OF INDIA(AESI)
DEPARTMENT OF AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING
Name of the Professional Body:
Aeronautical Society of India(AeSI)
Inaugurated by :
Chief Guest Shri V BALAKRISHNAN , Vice Chairman, AeSI, CEO, MTAL & Former Executive Director, HAL
ABOUT AeSI
AeSI is founded on December 27, 1948
Aims and Scope of the Journal of Aerospace Sciences and Technologies are intended to reflect the objective of the Aeronautical Society of India. The objective of the Society is to promote the advancement and dissemination of the knowledge of aeronautical sciences and aircraft engineering as well as elevation of the aeronautical profession.
Over the years, the Society has grown into a major professional body in the field of aeronautics, aviation & aerospace. The Society has 16 branches at all the important centers of aviation in the counter viz. Agra, Bangalore, Kolkata, Chandigarh, Chennai, Goa, Hyderabad, Kanpur, Kochi, Mumbai, Nasik, Nagpur, Pune, New Delhi, Sunabeda & Trivuvananthapuram. Society also has Journal Division and CFD Division at Bangalore.
Its membership of more than 9,000/- is drawn from all major Aeronautical establishments such as Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. D.G.C.A., Defence Research and Development Establishments, Academic Institutions, Aeronautical Development Agency, Indian Air Force, Indian Space Research Oganization, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, National Airports Autority of India, Air India, Indian Airlines, Jetways, Pawan Hans, Aero Industry in Private Sector. Private Airlines, Defence Res. & Dev. Laboratory, Army Aviation Corps. The Society also drives its strength from financial support and active participation of its Corporate Members. The society has 53 Corporate Members from both National and International Sectors.
ACTIVITIES OF THE SOCIETY
Fraternisation amongst professionals.
Enrols individuals, Institutions & Industries are members.
Conducts examinations in aeronautical engineering equivalent to a degree from an Indian University.
Publishes a Quarterly International Journal & monthly E-news.
Encourages Indian authors to write books on aeronautical/aerospace subjects.
Encourages young professionals to participate in International Conferences.
Confers Awards of Excellance.
Conducts Annual Essay Competitions for Students/Scientists/Engineers.
Provides a platform for Industry - R&D - Academic interaction.
Participates with the Government in the formulation of policies, procedures and guidelines.
Objectives of AeSI – Aero Club Student Chapter
About 120 students registered their names for student member in Aeronautical Society of India(AeSI).
The objectives of the AeSI – Aero Club student chapter are as follows:
To interact with the Engineers and Scientists from the Premier Institutes, R&D establishments and Industries who are Members and Fellow Members of the Aeronautical Society of India(AeSI).
In the department level, to arrange invited expert lectures, seminars, workshops and FDP programs.
To arrange industrial visits with the support of AeSI.
To encourage the students to participate in the technical events conducted at AeSI campus and other organizations conducted in association with AeSI..
/activities/student-activities/dsce-clubs/aeronautical-society-of-india
/activities/student-activities/dsce-clubs/team-acris
Blood Donation Camp
The Department of ISE& NSS -DSCE organized a Blood Donation Camp on 5th December 2025 at the Department of ISE, DSCE, Bengaluru, in collaboration with Sagar Hospitals. The event aimed to encourage voluntary blood donation and raise awareness about its life-saving importance. Students, faculty, and volunteers actively participated in the camp, contributing to a noble cause and reinforcing the values of social responsibility and community service.
See More...
Plantation at Govt. School
The Department of Bio Technology &Chemical Engineering, in association with the National Service Scheme (NSS)DSCE wing organized a tree plantation drive on 29th September 2025 at Kempegowda Government Higher Primary School, Kumaraswamy Layout, Bengaluru. The Department of Biotechnology also joined in support of this green initiative, which aimed to foster environmental awareness and promote sustainable practices among students. The program reflected the collective commitment of the departments to extend classroom learning into meaningful community engagement and environmental stewardship.
Awareness programme on CO-Existence,Zonotic Diseases & Animal Behaviour
Shree Keerthikumar, Kannada Film actor, Runner of Big Boss reality show on Zee Kannada Channel and Shree Channappa Huddar, Kannada Film Actor, Winner of Sa Re Ga Ma, Music champion show on Zee Kannda, were Chief Guests for the Program and the program was started with procession in the college premises along with chief guests followed by flag hoisting. Various competitions were conducted prior to the day of celebration viz. debate, quiz, singing etc. The Rajyothsava program was conducted at Dr. Premachandra Sagar Auditorium. The program started with inauguration followed by speeches by Chief Guest’s, Principal and Secretary. Various cultural programs were conducted and the event was concluded by valedictory program.
Nasha Muktha Bharat Pledge taking Activity
As part of the Nasha Muktha Bharat Abhiyaan, on 14th Aug 2025, Dr. Deepa H A, the NSS Department Coordinator, Department of Chemical Engineering, DSCE, organized a pledge-taking activity involving 7th semester students of the department. The pledge was undertaken to create awareness about the harmful effects of drug abuse and to educate the youth on the importance of staying away from addictive substances.
Har Ghar Tiranga Campaign
The Har Ghar Tiranga(Tricolour in Every Home) campaign, launched by the Indian government under Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, encourages every Indian to hoist the national flag at their homes from August 13-15 to foster patriotism and a personal connection with the flag, transforming it from a formal symbol to a heartfelt emblem of unity and national pride, with participation from citizens, organizations, and e-commerce platforms to ensure widespread celebration.
7 Days Special Camp
The Function was inaugurated by Sri Shivamada Naik, Punchayath Development officer Chiloor Grama Panchayath, NSS Program officers and NSS Volunteer Team DSCE by Lighting the Lamp. Initial visit was to the Government Lower Primary School, Road Jakkasandra. NSS volunteers conducted activities and games to engage the students. Panchayat and NSS representatives spoke about the importance of education in a person’s life, and encouraged the students to pursue their ambitions.
Essential Health and Hygiene Practices
The objective of the program was to educate and raise awareness about essential health and hygiene practices, the importance of a balanced diet, and preventive healthcare measures to ensure overall well- being.
Waste Management Awareness and Action Drive
The primary objective of the Waste Management Awareness Rally was to educate the public on the importance of proper waste management practices such as segregation, recycling, and composting.
/activities/nss
Our Events
Team Coordinator
“MUDITA”, a term originating from Sanskrit embodies the profound joy derived from witnessing the happiness and well-being of others. Team Mudita, the OFFICIAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CELL of Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, is committed to helping those in need. The team's fundamental goal is to cultivate a society where smiles abound, spreading joy across the populace. Team Mudita also focuses on highlighting the significance and awareness of core values and basic ethics in life. Among the forum's key objectives are empowering and engaging with the less fortunate and underprivileged, and fostering meaningful and enduring connections within the community.</br > Team Mudita's modest steps towards societal betterment aim to spark significant change and bring hope to many disheartened lives. Be it offering recreational breaks for senior citizens, organizing fests for college housekeeping staff, conducting career guidance programs and interactive learning sessions for underprivileged children, or collecting and distributing essential commodities to those in dire need, Team Mudita is dedicated to making a difference. With unwavering commitment, Team Mudita strives to uplift and transform lives. Together, we grow.
To socialize and spread happiness among people who are in dire need.
To create a pleasant atmosphere and spread optimistic vibes.
To help and support those in need.
To uplift the underprivileged classes of society.
Collaborations of Team Mudita
Team Mudita has teamed up with various organizations to boost community well-being. Through our partnership with Sahas NGO at the Lalbagh Flower Show, Team Mudita made sure the event space was kept clean. With Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Team Mudita managed the Kadlekayi Parishe event in Basavannagudi, checking vendor setups and keeping the area clean. Team Mudita collaborated with Oracle to distribute beds collected from college to slums in Anjanapura. Once again, Team Mudita collaborated with Oracle to organize a poster design event at Nirmala Vidyalaya for Global Handwash Day to promote cleanliness and hygiene. Team Mudita also conducted a football event for underprivileged government school students at Saint Joseph High School grounds. Moreover, Team Mudita worked with Oracle volunteers, members of the Being Social NGO, and Rotary Bangalore Lakeside on a school painting project at the Act of Hope School, brightening up the school walls. These efforts show Team Mudita's dedication to supporting and improving local communities through effective teamwork and service.
Media Outreach
On the month of June 2022, Mudita got featured on "This Week India News", a news platform which showcased our event "Valuable Vintage" where we visit old age homes.
"Amhiti: Where Hope Found a Helping Hand"
This event was designed to bring the Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering together every year for three days to collect essential items and donations which include bedsheets, toiletries, packed food, stationery, clothes, school supplies, toys, pet food, sports equipment, and more, to extend a helping hand to those facing challenging circumstances and offer them a glimmer of hope for a brighter future. Amhiti as an event was a living example of this: Happiness doesn't result from what we get, but from what we give. An event like this reinstates our belief that when we come together as a community, we can create positive change. Even the smallest of contributions will make a difference in the lives of those in need and bring joy to their lives. The love that poured in during Amhiti has strengthened our resolve to serve the community.
"Vihaanam" is an event that provides a college tour for students from government schools. It aims to introduce students to various branches of engineering and technology through guided tours of different departments, demonstrations of experiments by faculty members, and interactive sessions. The event fosters curiosity and provides an insightful overview of different engineering and science fields. Various games are played to keep the students refreshed. Conducting these tours allows the students to socialize, have fun, discuss their experiences with their peers, and explore the campus. By exposing students to real-world applications and academic environments, the event aims to motivate them to consider careers in science and engineering, broadening their horizons and aspirations.
Kritagnya is an annual cultural fest organized by Team Mudita, dedicated to honoring and expressing gratitude to the non-teaching staff. This event aims to acknowledge the invaluable contributions of individuals such as housekeeping personnel, gardeners, and watchmen, offering them a refreshing break from their routine work. Through Kritagnya, Team Mudita seeks to recognize and celebrate the hard work and dedication of these essential members of our college community.
JoyFul Learning
Joyful Learning is a program that provides underprivileged children with a strong foundation-level education and moral values. Team Mudita focus on academic concepts, extracurricular activities, and real-time skills, including sensitive topics like women's health and hygiene. The team’s interactive games and activities make learning a fun experience. Team Mudita has taught construction workers' children, organized summer camps. Team Mudita’s goal is to transform these young children into aspiring youths who contribute to society's betterment.
Valuable Vintage
Valuable Vintage is one of Team Mudita's most consistent events. Through this initiative, Team Mudita visits various old age homes and aims to engage the elderly in fun and interactive activities. By bridging the generation gap, Team Mudita strives to bring out the inner child in them, celebrating their supportiveness and encouraging them to enjoy every moment. Team Mudita creates a joyful atmosphere with cultural events like singing, dancing, and playing games. At Valuable Vintage, Team Mudita believes in the power of laughter and shared experiences to brighten the lives of our elders, making each event a memorable and heartwarming experience. The positive response Team Mudita has received motivates us to continuously strive to conduct more events
Outstation Events
Team Mudita's outstation events are dedicated to, bringing joy, comfort, and essential resources to those in need. With a vision of including inclusivity and creating cherished memories, the team visits old age homes and orphanages in Gangavathi, Kolar, and Sindhanur, engaging with the residents through games, performances, and recreational activities. Donations of clothes and books collected in Amhiti are distributed during these visits. Team Mudita has organized impactful events in these locations. In Gangavathi, Team Mudita bonded with children at the ARD Campus and brought joy to the elderly at Maranatha Old Age Home. In Kolar, the team held a lively event at Antarganga Vidya Samste, featuring games, song and dance performances, and fun activities. In Sindhanur, the team visited Karunya Old Age Home and Ashakirana Orphanage, interacting with residents and children through creative sessions and performances.
Other Events
On January 14, 2023, Team Mudita collaborated with Oracle to distribute 70 beds to needy children in Anjanapura, Bengaluru. Earlier, on January 8, 2023, Team Mudita volunteered at a football tournament for underprivileged students, assisting and distributing awards.  On October 2nd, 2024, Team Mudita, in collaboration with the NGO Let's Be The Change, successfully hosted the Mega Operation Repurpose Drive—a large-scale initiative focused on transforming waste into valuable resources. This event aimed to promote responsible waste management by encouraging the collection and recycling of materials such as plastic, clothes, e-waste, and more. With over 200 kg of dry waste collected, the drive emphasized the importance of waste segregation and sustainable practices. Through door-to-door campaigns and community outreach in Kumarswamy Layout, the event inspired local citizens to adopt conscious waste disposal habits, contributing meaningfully to environmental sustainability.
/activities/social-cell
Newsletters
Year 2026
January Newsletter
Year 2025
February Newsletter
March Newsletter
April Newsletter
May Newsletter
June Newsletter
July Newsletter
August Newsletter
September Newsletter
October Newsletter
November Newsletter
December Newsletter
Year 2024
Year 2023
Year 2022
/activities/dsce-newsletters
Media in DSCE
/activities/dsce-in-media
First Year Coordinator's Desk
Dr. Radha Gupta
Professor & Head Mathematics
Dr. Radha Gupta, Professor & Head Mathematics at Dayananda Sagar College of Engineering, is currently the First Year Coordinator for Chemistry Cycle. She has more than 27 years of experience in academia and Industry, in the domains of research, teaching and administration.
Dr. Joseph C M
Professor & Head Physics
I am Dr. C M Joseph heading the Physics department with a PhD in Physics and a postdoc from a reputed Japanese University with a prestigious Japanese Government fellowship in Nanotechnology. My areas of interests include Thin films, Organic sensors, photodetectors, memory devices for electronic applications, flexible wearables, displays for OLED screens and Solar cells.
/first-year/fy-cd
Key Contacts
In view of the Covid-19 pandemic & subsequent lockdown all over the country, DSCE is abiding by the directives issued by VTU/State Government. We have established a cell for handling student grievances related to examinations and academic activities during COVID-19 pandemic as indicated below. The coordinators mentioned below will respond to the student grievances regarding the Academic & Examination activities and suggest suitable information/solution to the grievances raised by the students between 9.00 A.M. to 5.00 P.M. except on holidays.
DEPARTMENT
NAME OF THE
COORDINATOR AND
DESIGNATION
CONTACT INFORMATION
080-42161708
708
PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE
DR. B G PRASAD
Principal,DSCE
080-42161753 / 26662226
2753
ADMISSIONS
Ms. Prema David
Director-Admissions
080 42161750/51 / 9916075170
2750/51
Hostel Office
080 42161708
Indian Boys Hostel
080 42161701
NRI Boys Hostel
080 42161745
Girls Hostel
080 42161727
EXAM SECTION
MR. RANJANKUMAR JHA
080-42161770
2770
HR SECTION
MR. GOPALAKRISHNA MURTHY
Manager - HR
080-26662226
FEE SECTION
MR. KUMAR M.P.
SCHOLARSHIP SECTION
MR. KARIGOWDA
DR. JOHNSON DAVID
chief librarian
080-42161739
2739
MR. M N GURUVENKATESH
080-26663981 / 42161497
2497
MS. SANGEETHA
080-42161758
2758
FIRST YEAR OFFICE
MR. NARASIMHA SWAMY H R
080-42161763
2763
DR. HAREESHA N.G.
Head of the Dept.
080-42096324
6324
Dr. Vijay Tambrallimath
080-41155890
1097
Artificial Intelligence and machine learning
080-42161753
080-42161748
2748
Dr. Dattatreya P Mankame
COMPUTER SCIENCE (CYBER SECURITY)
COMPUTER SCIENCE (DATA SCIENCE)
Dr. Rashmi S
Vice Principal & Head of the Dept.
DR. D.R. RAMESH BABU
080-42161726
2726
DR. H.K. RAMARAJU
080-42219194
2194
DR. R. RAVISHANKAR
080-42161740
2740
DR. P. PRAKASH
080-42161093
8080
Dr. PremKumar M
080-42161743
2743
080-42161731
2734
DR. J.S. RAJASHEKAR
080-42161735
2735
Dr. Anju V Kulkarni
080-42161728
2728
Industrial Engineering & Management
DR. VASANTH KUMAR
080 - 42161741
2741
Dr. Rajeshwari J
080-42161725
2725
080-42161742
2742
DR. A.R. ASWATHA
080-42161733
2733
Dr. K.G.HEMALATHA
080-42161096
1096
080 - 42161768
2768
Dr. C.M.Joseph
080 - 42161729
2729
Dr. K.S.Anantha Raju
080 - 42161700
2700
MATHEMATICS
080 - 42161730
2730
The students of DSCE are hereby informed to contact the above mentioned coordinators regarding their Academic, Examination, Fee Payment, Library & Scholarship related grievances and get resolved accordingly.
/contact-us
1st Sem
3rd Sem
5th and 7th Sem
6th Sem
8th Sem
/calendar-of-events
Under the aegis of Dr. Chandramma Sagar Center for Women Entrepreneurship and Skills Training (DC-WEST), DSCE is conducting several activities for the empowerment of women.
Empowerment of women which helps them to take their own decisions by breaking all personal limitations of the society and family. Empowering women is to make them independent in all aspects from mind, thought, rights, decisions, etc by leaving all the social and family limitations. It is to bring equality in the society for both male and female in all areas.
DSCE has organized many events for the empowerment of women and still continues the same.
Events organized Under the aegis of DC - WEST
The Clothesline Project
The department of MCA in collaboration with Durga India under aegis of WHGR Cell, DSCE and DCWEST conducted an awareness program on “The Clothesline project” to address the issue of violence against women at our campus on 8thDecember 2022. The students of MCA actively took part in organizing the event. They took up the initiative of spreading the awareness of the event amongst the other students of DSI.
Click here for complete report
Workshop on Sustainable Menstruation
A seminar was organized on ‘Sustainable Menstruation’for the students and staff of DSCE by Dr. Aarushi Kehar, Senior Manager Research, Sirona Hygiene Foundation at 11:00AM on Saturday, 18th December 2021. The seminar included introduction to complexity of addressing menstruation, its importance, best practices and clinical approaches. It brought the awareness amongst students regarding the importance of menstrual health & hygiene.
Webinar on “Menstrual Hygiene Session”
On Account of Women’s Day, Dept of MCA organized a webinar on “Menstrual Hygiene Session” as an activity of ‘Women’s Grievances and Redressal Cell’ under the aegis of DC-WEST for all DSI female students and faculty members. It was a collaborative session with UNICHARM INDIA and GLOBALHUNT foundation.
Report on International Women's Day
Department of Mathematics, Chemistry and Physics, DSCE, in association with IWSA, Bangalore Chapter, celebrated the 24th International women’s day under the aegis of Dr. Chandramma Sagar Center for Women Empowerment and Skills Training (DCWEST) on 21st March 2019 to honor womanhood and acknowledge all women in the world for making this world a better place for everyone to live in.
Report on Self Defense Workshop
Date: 7th October 2017
Time: 10.30 AM
Venue: Dr. PC Auditorium Food Court.
DC-WEST in association with TechFest of IIT Bombay conducted Nirbhaya- a Self-Defense workshop for girl students of DSCE. The trainer for the event was Mr. Fawad Ullah Syed, a Karate Black Belt, International Gold Medalist and Dojo Instructor from World Funakoshi Shotokan Karate Organization. The event was organized by the Department of MCA.
More than 110 girl students attended the event. Dr. Poornima Nataraja, HOD, Department of MCA welcomed the Principal Dr. C P S Prakash, Vice-Principal Dr. D R Ramesh Babu, Mr. Fawad Ullah Syed and his team. The Principal addressed the students on the relevance of self-defense for girls in modern times, where mobility and independence of girls has to be complemented with basic knowledge of survival under adverse situations.
World Yoga Day Celebration
June 21, 2017
to mark the celebration of International Yoga Day, Department of Automobile Engineering, , Department of MCA, andDepartment of Mathematicsunder the banner of
had invited
foundation, Jayanagar, Bangalore for learning Upa Yoga formulated by his excellence Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev.
Principal Dr. C.P.S. Prakash presided over the celebration and participated in practicing and learning yoga along with Vice Principal
Dr. H. Ramakrishna
. HOD’s of various departments along with their faculty and instructors actively participated in the celebration from 10.15am to 12.30pm at
Seminar Hall
CELEBRATION OF INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY - 2017
6.03.2017, 7.03.2017 , 8.03.2017
P. C. Sagar food court
The second year of celebrating International women’s day was organized through Dr.Chandramma Sagar Center for Women Empowerment and Skills Training between 6-8th March 2017. The event was a successful one with faculty across Dayanandasagar Institutions participating in the events.   The event was coordinated by the students of MCA and first year engineering. We take this opportunity to thank the management for supporting women centric activities and also Oriflame for sponsoring gifts for the winners.  M/S Oriflame also sponsored the visitors to their stall with a free facial and makeup orientation session.
On the first day, the following events were organised:
“Musical chair”
“I know it all”.
This included playing of tagline quizzes, logo quizzes, and guessing of audio clips along with musical chair.  The second day involved the following games:
“One minute game”
“Tuk Tuk”.
These were games that involved various activities such as rapid fires which awaited quick responses from the participants.
“Cooking without fire”
was held on the third day wherein the participants prepared a variety of mouth-watering dishes and this event was judged by our respected Vice-Principal and Director.
The oriflame gift hampers were then given away as prizes to the respective winners of all the events but the highlight of the event was
“the lucky draw winners”
by Oriflame. Overall the three-day women’s day celebration was a very highly spirited one and the participants as well as the organisers had a wonderful time.